FRPSS: Feature Rearrangement in Pre-Shape Space for
Single-Image Generation
Yuexing Han1,2,∗
Haoxuan Zhang1
Bing Wang1,∗
1School of Computer Engineering and Science, Shanghai University,
99 Shangda Road, Shanghai 200444, People’s Republic of China
2Key Laboratory of Silicate Cultural Relics Conservation (Shanghai University),
Ministry of Education
E-mails: han_yx@i.shu.edu.cn; 1649366224@qq.com; bingbignwang@shu.edu.cn
∗Corresponding authors: Yuexing Han and Bing Wang
September 16, 2026
This work has been submitted to the IEEE for possible publication. Copyright may be
transferred without notice, after which this version may no longer be accessible.
Abstract
Generative models trained on a single image often struggle to balance global
structural integrity and local diversity. Existing single-image generation methods
commonly rely on random noise to drive the generation process and lack explicit
global structural constraints, making the generated results prone to spatial struc-
tural misalignment when structural variations occur. To address the issue, Feature
Rearrangement in Pre-Shape Space for Single-Image Generation (FRPSS) is pro-
posed in this paper. The core of FRPSS is the Manifold Structural Rearrangement
with Feature Augmentation on Geodesic Surface (MSR-FAGS) module. MSR-FAGS
replaces the randomly initialized features of the low-scale generator with rearranged
Pre-Shape features and uses the features to guide image generation at subsequent
scales, thereby reducing the risk of structural misalignment.
To support down-
stream tasks such as stylization, a Scale-adaptive Sliding-window Patch Extraction
(SSPE) strategy is further designed, and a directional Contrastive Language-Image
Pre-training supervision module with SSPE (CLIP-SSPE) is constructed. Qualita-
tive and quantitative experiments demonstrate that FRPSS achieves the best Single
Image Fréchet Inception Distance (SIFID) scores on all three datasets while main-
taining competitive Learned Perceptual Image Patch Similarity (LPIPS). Further
qualitative experiments verify the effectiveness of FRPSS across multiple down-
stream tasks with the CLIP-SSPE module.
Keywords:
Single-image generation, Pre-Shape Space, Feature rearrangement,
Stylized image generation, MSR-FAGS, CLIP-SSPE
1
Introduction
Modern image generation models, particularly Generative Adversarial Networks
(GANs) [1, 2] and Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) [3, 4], have demon-
strated remarkable performance in synthesizing visual content with both fidelity and
diversity. The generative models have been widely applied in image super-resolution,
1
arXiv:2609.16594v1  [cs.CV]  15 Sep 2026


semantic scene synthesis, cross-modal content generation, and other fields [5]. However,
the strong generative capabilities of the models rely on massive amounts of training data,
which greatly limits their applicability in specific domains. In fields such as material im-
age analysis, historical artifact restoration, and private artistic creation, the acquisition
and annotation of high-quality data are costly [6, 7], which has become an important fac-
tor restricting the widespread application of generative models. Against the background,
Single-Image Generation (SIG) has gradually developed into an important generation
method for extremely data-scarce scenarios [8]. SIG models can synthesize novel image
variations that conform to the visual characteristics of the original image by capturing the
internal statistics of a single input image. In addition, the single-image generation frame-
works can support a series of downstream applications, such as text-guided style transfer,
text-guided content generation, and paint-to-image translation. The downstream appli-
cations provide users with means for interactive and continuous semantic control over
generated content and have certain practical value in customized graphic design, virtual
reality, artistic creation, and other scenarios.
In recent years, research on SIG has gradually developed into two major categories.
The first category is based on multi-scale GAN models [8, 9, 10], which employ a coarse-
to-fine hierarchical framework to model local image patch distributions. Although the
multi-scale methods can capture the distribution patterns of image patches, the gener-
ation process relies on random noise for initialization at low scales. Small structural
deviations produced at low scales are continuously amplified during subsequent upsam-
pling, and the progressive accumulation of errors can lead to structural misalignment in
the generated results. The second category focuses on recently developed single-image
diffusion models [11, 12]. The diffusion-based methods train denoising diffusion models
on a single image. Although the diffusion-based methods perform better than multi-scale
models in image texture generation, the effective receptive field of the network usually
needs to be restricted to prevent the diffusion model from overfitting to the single image.
The limited spatial perception makes it difficult for the model to capture and maintain
the global image structure, resulting in structural misalignment in the final generated
results.
In addition, stylization [13, 14] is also an important downstream task of SIG frame-
works.
However, introducing cross-modal semantic supervision based on Contrastive
Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) [15, 16] into existing SIG frameworks still presents
certain challenges. Images generated by models that rely on noise initialization are often
unstable. Directly applying CLIP-based semantic constraints to the SIG models can not
only aggravate error accumulation but also easily introduce hallucinated content, thereby
making effective stylization difficult to achieve [13].
To address the problems of existing single-image generation methods, FRPSS, a
single-image generation method based on the Hierarchical Patch VAE-GAN framework
[10], is proposed. The core component of FRPSS is the Manifold Structural Rearrange-
ment with Feature Augmentation on Geodesic Surface (MSR-FAGS) module, which in-
corporates FAGS [17] to perform Geodesic surface interpolation in the Pre-Shape Space.
The Pre-Shape Space theory [18] is introduced into the single-image generation task to
model features and exploit the structural prior information contained in a single training
sample. The MSR-FAGS module not only provides subsequent generators with diverse
and structurally plausible features, but also alleviates error accumulation during the
multi-scale generation process.
For the stylization task in single-image generation frameworks, a Contrastive Language-
Image Pre-training supervision module with Scale-adaptive Sliding-window Patch Ex-
2


traction (CLIP-SSPE) is further designed.
The CLIP-SSPE module adopts a scale-
adaptive sliding-window patch extraction strategy and calculates the directional CLIP
loss accordingly [16] to guide the image stylization process.
The module guides the
generation of stylized images corresponding to the text prompts provided by users.
Figure 1: Overall framework of FRPSS.
As shown in Fig. 1, the MSR-FAGS module generates diverse and structurally plau-
sible features, reduces the risk of structural misalignment in the generated results, and
improves the fidelity of the generated images. The PRE-MSR module ensures consis-
tency in representation form between its output features and the features produced by
MSR-FAGS. The CLIP-SSPE module employs directional CLIP supervision for semantic
guidance to achieve image stylization. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments
demonstrate that FRPSS is highly competitive in the single-image generation task and
can support multiple downstream tasks.
The main contributions of the paper are summarized as follows:
• A single-image generation framework, FRPSS, is proposed. FRPSS can generate
diverse images and support interactive control over the generation process.
• MSR-FAGS projects local features into the Pre-Shape Space and employs Geodesic
surface interpolation to generate diverse and structurally plausible features.
• CLIP-SSPE constructs directional CLIP supervision during the multi-scale gener-
ation process and enables FRPSS to support downstream tasks.
2
Related work
2.1
Single-image generation
Single-image generation methods synthesize diverse and realistic samples without
additional training data by learning the statistics of local image patches from a single
input image [19]. Existing solutions in the field can be mainly divided into two categories:
methods based on multi-scale Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) [20] and methods
based on diffusion models [21, 13, 11, 12].
SinGAN [8] first introduced multi-scale GANs into the single-image generation task.
In the architecture, cascaded generators progressively learn image structures and textures
from coarse to fine scales. Subsequently, numerous variants based on the multi-scale GAN
paradigm were proposed to further improve training efficiency, generation diversity, and
3


other aspects of performance.
For example, ConSinGAN [9] accelerates the training
process through a parallel multi-stage optimization strategy, whereas HP-VAE-GAN [10]
introduces a conditional Variational Autoencoder (VAE) branch to enhance the diversity
of generated samples. To enhance the modeling capability for global structures, PetsGAN
[22] introduces external priors from a pre-trained generative model to enhance high-level
semantic information in single-image generation. MOGAN [23] models regions of interest
and backgrounds through a morphology-aware mechanism to maintain reasonable image
structures. SAMDSinGAN [24] introduces a self-attention mechanism to capture long-
range dependencies and global contextual information, thereby enhancing the modeling
capability for overall image structures.
The second category is based on diffusion models for single-image generation [3].
SinDDM [13] introduces a multi-scale cascaded architecture into single-image diffusion
generation, whereas SinDiffusion [11] demonstrates that a diffusion network can effec-
tively learn the internal data distribution at a single scale by using a local receptive field,
thereby achieving high texture fidelity. Based on the single-image diffusion framework,
the recent StructDiff [12] introduces an adaptive receptive field mechanism to alleviate
structural misalignment caused by a single receptive field. Recent studies have also be-
gun to explore efficient training-free adaptation strategies [25]. In addition, recent studies
have further extended single-image generation to more complex single-video generation
tasks [26, 27].
Although both multi-scale GAN methods and diffusion models have advanced the
field of single-image generation, existing methods commonly adopt noise-based initial-
ization strategies that inherently lack explicit structural priors.
In multi-scale GAN
architectures, the absence of reliable priors can lead to structural misalignment at the
initial generation stage. The misalignment is progressively amplified when the generated
results are upsampled to higher resolutions, leading to error accumulation. In diffusion
models, the lack of explicit structural priors similarly limits the ability to control global
spatial structures.
In addition, diffusion models usually involve relatively high infer-
ence costs. To overcome the limitation caused by insufficient structural priors, FRPSS
replaces random noise initialization with rearranged latent features in the Pre-Shape
Space at the low-scale generation stage, thereby maintaining the stability of structural
layouts in subsequent generated images.
2.2
Single-image stylized generation
Many existing stylization methods employ large-scale vision-language models [28] to
guide image editing and generation. In early studies, StyleCLIP [15] employs a CLIP-
based loss that minimizes the cosine distance between the embeddings of a generated
image and a target text prompt to guide text-driven image manipulation.
However,
directly applying a global CLIP loss may lead to unstable optimization and degraded
image quality. To address the limitation, StyleGAN-NADA [29] introduces a directional
CLIP loss. The loss constrains the semantic change direction of an image to be consistent
with the semantic change direction of text. Subsequent studies further extend directional
CLIP guidance to text-guided image stylization and manipulation. For example, CLIP-
Styler [16] proposes a patch-wise CLIP loss to guide local texture stylization. Similarly,
DiffusionCLIP [30] employs a directional CLIP loss for stylized generation in diffusion
models.
To enable interactive control over single-image generation models, many methods
incorporate CLIP-based supervision into the generation process. For example, SinDDM
[13] uses the gradients of a global CLIP loss to update the predicted clean image during
4


diffusion sampling, enabling text-guided image stylization. However, SinDDM simulta-
neously adjusts image structure and texture during iterative denoising. The coupling
makes semantic supervision prone to disturbing the spatial layout of the image, which
may lead to hallucinated content and structural distortion. To alleviate the problem,
FRPSS applies a directional CLIP loss [16] to the generated result at each scale. Based
on a stable image structure, FRPSS uses the directional CLIP loss to guide image gener-
ation and reduce interference with the original spatial layout during semantic injection,
thereby reducing artifacts and hallucinated content in the generated results.
2.3
The Shape Space theory
The Shape Space theory was introduced by Kendall [18]. Under the theory, shape
is defined as geometric information that remains invariant to translation, scaling, and
rotation. Compared with the Shape Space, the Pre-Shape Space provides a simplified rep-
resentation that removes only translation and scaling while retaining rotational informa-
tion. The Pre-Shape Space also supports corresponding feature augmentation methods.
Therefore, FRPSS adopts the Pre-Shape Space to model features. Given a feature vector
U = {u1, · · · , um} ∈Rm, landmarks are constructed through a simple lifting operation by
setting vi = ui. The resulting landmark matrix is A = [(u1, v1), · · · , (um, vm)] ∈R2×m.
The centered form A′ is then computed and normalized [18] to obtain the Pre-Shape τ:
A′ = [(u1 −¯u, v1 −¯v), · · · , (um −¯u, vm −¯v)],
τ =
A′
∥A′∥∈S2m−3,
(1)
where ¯u and ¯v denote the means of the landmarks along the two dimensions, respectively,
and ∥· ∥denotes the Euclidean norm. All Pre-Shapes τ lie on the hypersphere S2m−3
corresponding to the Pre-Shape Space.
Following the interpolation method of Han et al.
[31], FRPSS adopts Geodesic
interpolation in the Pre-Shape Space to augment the Pre-Shape samples on the manifold.
For two Pre-Shapes τa and τb, let θ = arccos(⟨τa, τb⟩) denote the Geodesic distance
between them in the Pre-Shape Space. The interpolation point on the shortest Geodesic
curve between the two Pre-Shapes is given by Gslerp [31, 32]:
Gslerp(τa, τb, t) = cos(tθ)τa + sin(tθ)τb −τa cos θ
sin θ
,
(2)
where t ∈[0, 1] denotes the normalized interpolation position along the shortest
Geodesic curve. When t = 0, the interpolation result is τa, and when t = 1, the interpo-
lation result is τb.
To perform interpolation on a Geodesic surface constructed from a set of Pre-Shapes
T = {τ1, . . . , τK}, FRPSS employs the FAGS algorithm [17] for iterative Geodesic inter-
polation. Given a set of weights ω = {ω1, . . . , ωK} sampled from a Dirichlet distribu-
tion and satisfying PK
i=1 ωi = 1, FAGS synthesizes a Pre-Shape τsyn through iterative
Geodesic interpolation. The initialization is set as ˜τ1 = τ1, and the subsequent iterations
are defined as follows [17]:
˜τj = Gslerp
 
˜τj−1, τj,
ωj
Pj
k=1 ωk
!
,
for j = 2, . . . , K.
(3)
The final output τsyn = ˜τK represents a first-order approximation to the weighted
Fréchet mean of the set of Pre-Shapes under the weights ω.
5


3
Methodology
Fig. 1 illustrates the two stages of the FRPSS framework: the Patch-VAE stage and
the Patch-GAN stage. The Patch-VAE stage consists of an encoder E, the PRE-MSR
module, and generators G0, · · · , GM. The Patch-VAE stage is designed to reconstruct
images at low scales. PRE-MSR ensures that the feature vectors extracted by E have
the same representation form as the output features of MSR-FAGS. The Patch-GAN
stage consists of the MSR-FAGS module, generators GM+1, · · · , Gi, · · · , GN, and the
corresponding discriminators DM+1, · · · , Di, · · · , DN. The Patch-GAN stage is designed
to generate diverse images with high-frequency details. MSR-FAGS performs feature
augmentation by taking the mean feature Z produced by E as input and generating the
augmented feature Z∗. In addition, FRPSS introduces cross-modal semantic supervision
into the generation process. The CLIP-SSPE module calculates the directional CLIP
loss to guide image generation according to user-provided text prompts.
3.1
Patch-VAE stage
Given a single input image x, FRPSS first resizes the image to the predefined largest
scale xN using bilinear interpolation. The resulting image xN is then progressively down-
sampled to obtain a set of images at different scales, denoted as {xi}N
i=0. Here, xi denotes
the downsampled image at scale i, and x0 corresponds to the smallest scale. Each image
xi is associated with a generator Gi for image generation at the corresponding scale. The
downsampling ratio between two adjacent scales is set to 0.75.
The encoder E first extracts the features of the input image x0 through a convo-
lutional feature extraction module. Two convolutional branches then output the mean
feature µ ∈RC×H×W and the standard deviation feature σ ∈RC×H×W , respectively.
Here, C denotes the channel dimension, while H and W denote the height and width of
the feature space, respectively. For any spatial position j ∈{1, . . . , H ×W} in the feature
space, the C-dimensional vectors µj and σj jointly define the Gaussian distribution of
the image patch corresponding to the position. Following the setting of HP-VAE-GAN
[10], the patch-level Kullback–Leibler (KL) divergence can be independently computed
at position j. By summing the divergence values over all local positions in the feature
map, the total KL loss for training the Patch-VAE stage is obtained as follows:
LKL(x) =
H×W
X
j=1
KL[N(µj, σ2
j )∥N(0, I)].
(4)
Then, standard reparameterization sampling is performed on µ and σ output by E to
obtain Z′ ∈RC×H×W :
Z′ = µ + σ ⊙ϵ,
(5)
where ϵ ∼N(0, I), and ⊙denotes element-wise multiplication.
To make Z′ have the same representation form as the output feature Z∗of MSR-
FAGS, the PRE-MSR module divides Z′ along the width W into K consecutive features
of width α. The features are denoted as G = (g1, · · · , gk, · · · , gK), where K = W/α
and gk ∈RC×H×α. Subsequently, according to Eq. (1), each gk is projected into the
Pre-Shape Space to obtain ξk ∈R2C×H×α. The projected features are then concatenated
in order to obtain Z
′
proj = (ξ1, · · · , ξk, · · · , ξK) ∈R2C×H×W . The entire process is shown
in Fig. 2(a). The detailed process of the PRE-MSR module is shown in Algorithm 1.
Z
′
proj is input into the generator G0 to obtain the image ¯x0, where ¯x0 = G0(Z
′
proj).
To progressively reconstruct the original image from low scales, details are gradually
6


Algorithm 1: PRE-MSR Module in the Patch-VAE training stage.
Input
: Latent Feature Z′ ∈RC×H×W , Group size α
Output: Projected Feature Z
′
proj ∈R2C×H×W
// 1.
Spatial Split
1 Split Z′ along width into spatial groups of size α;
2 Let G = {g1, g2, . . . , gK} be the sequence of groups, where K = W/α;
3 Initialize projected list P ←[];
// 2.
Project to the Pre-Shape Space
4 for k ←1 to K do
// Project gk ∈RC×H×α to a manifold point
5
ξk ←Project(gk);
6
Append ξk to P;
// 3.
Assembly & Feature Lifting
7 Zflat ←Concat(P);
8 Z
′
proj ←Reshape(Zflat);
9 return Z
′
proj;
Figure 2: Feature projection and rearrangement based on the Pre-Shape Space.
(a)
PRE-MSR module and (b) MSR-FAGS module.
added at the subsequent intermediate scales i ∈{1, · · · , M}. The generators G0, G1, · · · , GM
correspond to different generation scales. G0 reconstructs the low-scale image according
to the latent feature output by the encoder E. The generators G1, · · · , GM predict the
7


residual of the current scale relative to the generated image at the previous scale. During
training at scale i, the encoder E, the generator G0, and Gi are jointly optimized, while
the parameters of the intermediate generators G1, . . . , Gi−1 remain frozen. Since the
encoder E is continuously updated during training at different scales, its output latent
feature also changes accordingly. Therefore, G0 needs to be jointly optimized with E
to maintain the mapping relationship between the latent representation and the recon-
struction result at the lowest scale. The intermediate generators that have already been
trained remain frozen to prevent subsequent scale training from changing their learned
scale-specific residual mappings. Let ¯xi−1 denote the reconstruction result at the previous
scale. The previous reconstruction ¯xi−1 is first upsampled using bilinear interpolation,
denoted by ↑, to match the image resolution at scale i. The upsampled result is then
input into the generator Gi. ¯xi can be expressed as the sum of the upsampled result and
the residual predicted by the generator [10]:
¯xi = ↑¯xi−1 + Gi(↑¯xi−1).
(6)
The reconstruction loss between the generated image ¯xi and the real image xi is used to
calculate the difference between them:
LRecon(¯xi, xi) = ∥¯xi −xi∥2,
(7)
where ∥· ∥2 denotes the L2 norm.
Following the β-VAE framework proposed by Higgins et al. [33], the hyperparameter
β is introduced in the Patch-VAE stage to weight the KL divergence loss. Finally, the
total loss of the Patch-VAE stage is defined as follows [10]:
LV AE(x0, ¯xi, xi) = λrLRecon(¯xi, xi) + βLKL(x0), i ∈{0, · · · , M}.
(8)
where λr is a hyperparameter used to balance the contributions of the losses.
3.2
Patch-GAN stage
When the scale i ≥M + 1, the model enters the Patch-GAN stage to generate
diverse images with high-frequency texture information. At the stage, the parameters
of the encoder E and the generators G0, · · · , GM trained in the Patch-VAE stage are
frozen.
The mean feature µ output by the encoder E serves as the input vector Z of the
MSR-FAGS module, denoted as Z = µ.
Here, only the mean feature is used, and
reparameterization sampling is no longer performed, because µ encodes the structural
prior of the original image. The deterministic representation avoids the random noise
perturbation introduced by the reparameterization sampling process and provides a sta-
ble reference for the subsequent projection into the Pre-Shape Space. The MSR-FAGS
module rearranges the feature Z in the Pre-Shape Space to generate a new feature Z∗
with structural variations. Subsequently, Z∗is input into the generators G0, · · · , GM
trained in the Patch-VAE stage to obtain the image ¯xM at scale M. Based on the result,
scale-by-scale adversarial training is performed at the subsequent scales M + 1, · · · , N.
As shown in the Patch-GAN stage of Fig. 1, for scale i, the generated image ¯xadv
i−1
at the previous scale is first upsampled to the current scale. Next, the upsampled result
is added to the noise zi at the current scale, and the sum is input into the generator
Gi to predict the high-frequency texture residual. Finally, the residual output by Gi is
8


added to the upsampled ¯xadv
i−1 to obtain the generated image ¯xadv
i
at the current scale i.
Therefore, the generation process of ¯xadv
i
can be defined as follows:
¯xadv
i
= ↑¯xadv
i−1 + Gi(↑¯xadv
i−1 + zi).
(9)
The WGAN-GP loss [34] is adopted for adversarial training at the stage:
Ladv(zi, xi) = min
Gi max
Di
n
E[Di(xi)] −E[Di(¯xadv
i
)] −λE

(∥∇ˆxDi(ˆx)∥2 −1)2o
,
(10)
where Di denotes the discriminator at the current scale i, ∇denotes the gradient oper-
ator, and λ is the gradient penalty coefficient. Here, xi denotes the real image at the
current scale i, while ˆx denotes the uniformly interpolated result between the real sample
xi and the generated sample ¯xadv
i
. The calculation of ˆx can be expressed as follows [34]:
ˆx = ϵxi + (1 −ϵ)¯xadv
i
,
ϵ ∼U(0, 1).
(11)
In addition, the reconstruction loss used in the Patch-VAE stage is also adopted in
the Patch-GAN stage. Therefore, the total adversarial training loss is as follows:
LGAN(zi, ¯xi, xi) = λrLRecon(¯xi, xi) + βadvLadv(zi, xi), i ∈{M + 1, · · · , N},
(12)
where λr and βadv are hyperparameters used to balance the contributions of the losses.
The generation process of ¯xi is consistent with that in the Patch-VAE stage.
3.3
Manifold Structural Rearrangement with FAGS
The MSR-FAGS module generates diverse and structurally plausible features. Al-
gorithm 2 describes the complete execution process of the MSR-FAGS module.
To overcome the data limitation of a single sample, MSR-FAGS adopts the feature
decomposition strategy of MultiOSG [35]. As shown in Fig. 2(b), the feature Z is uni-
formly divided along the width W into K consecutive features in the same manner as the
PRE-MSR module. The resulting features form an ordered set G′ = {g′
1, . . . , g′
k, . . . , g′
K},
where g′
k ∈RC×H×α. Here, K = W/α denotes the number of features in G′, and α
denotes the width of each feature. Subsequently, each feature g′
k is projected into the
Pre-Shape Space in order according to Eq. (1). The projection yields the feature set
T = {τ1, . . . , τk, . . . , τK}, where τk ∈R2C×H×α.
To introduce feature diversity, MSR-FAGS first splits the feature Z along the width
W into W column features of size C × H. The order of the W features is then randomly
shuffled, and the features are concatenated again to obtain Zreshuffled. Subsequently,
MSR-FAGS divides Zreshuffled along the width W into K consecutive features to obtain
the set Gr = {gr
1, . . . , gr
k, . . . , gr
K}, where gr
k ∈RC×H×α.
Each feature in Gr is also
projected into the Pre-Shape Space according to Eq.
(1).
The projection yields the
feature set T r = {τ r
1, . . . , τ r
k, . . . , τ r
K}, where τ r
k ∈R2C×H×α.
To expand the set T r, iterative interpolation is performed on the Geodesic surface
constructed by the Pre-Shapes in T r according to Eq. (3). In each new feature generation
step, MSR-FAGS first samples a set of weights ω from the Dirichlet distribution to de-
termine the contribution proportion of each feature in T r. Using the sampled weights ω,
iterative Geodesic interpolation is then performed on the features in T r on the Geodesic
surface. The interpolation generates a new feature sj. After repeating the above process
Q times, the module obtains a new feature set S = {s1, · · · , sj, · · · , sQ} and merges it
with T r to obtain the expanded feature set C.
9


Algorithm 2: MSR-FAGS module in the Patch-GAN stage.
Input
: Feature tensor Z ∈RC×H×W , Group size α, Number of interpolated
features Q
Output: Enhanced Feature Z∗∈R2C×H×W
// 1.
Spatial Decomposition & Anchor Path Construction
1 Split Z along width W into slices and group them by size α;
2 Let G′ = {g′
1, . . . , g′
k, . . . , g′
K} be the ordered groups, where K = W/α;
3 for k ←1 to K do
4
τk ←Project(g′
k) ;
// Map to the Pre-Shape Space
5 Set T ←{τ1, . . . , τK};
// 2.
Candidate Path via Global Shuffling
6 Zreshuffled ←GlobalPermute(Z, dim = W) ;
// Global random reshuffling
7 Split Zreshuffled into Gr = {gr
1, . . . , gr
k, . . . , gr
K};
8 for k ←1 to K do
9
τ r
k ←Project(gr
k) ;
// Map to the Pre-Shape Space
10 Set Candidate Base T r ←{τ r
1, . . . , τ r
k, . . . , τ r
K};
// 3.
Manifold Expansion via FAGS
11 Initialize S ←∅;
12 for j ←1 to Q do
13
Sample weights ω ∼Dir(1K);
14
sj ←FAGS(T r, ω) ;
// Iterative Geodesic Interpolation
15
Add sj to S;
16 Set C ←Concat(T r, S);
// 4.
Feature Reconstruction via Shortest Geodesic Matching
17 Initialize reconstructed list L ←[];
18 for k ←1 to K do
// Search for best feature match in C
19
c∗
k ←arg min
c∈C
arccos (⟨τk, c⟩);
20
Append c∗
k to L;
21 Z∗←Concat(L) ;
// Reshape and Assembly (2C channels)
22 return Z∗;
MSR-FAGS then matches the features in T with those in C using the shortest
Geodesic distance. For each feature τk corresponding to a position in T , MSR-FAGS
searches C for the feature c∗
k with the shortest Geodesic distance to τk. The matching
allows the recombined feature to preserve the spatial coherence of the original image as
much as possible while introducing variations. Here, MSR-FAGS adopts the shortest
Geodesic distance in the Pre-Shape Space [31] as the matching criterion. The corre-
sponding matching process is defined as follows:
c∗
k = arg min
c∈C
arccos (⟨τk, c⟩) .
(13)
MSR-FAGS concatenates the matched K features in order along the width W to obtain
Z∗= (c∗
1, . . . , c∗
k, . . . , c∗
K) ∈R2C×H×W and inputs Z∗into G0. Finally, the generators
are trained according to the process in Section 3.2.
10


3.4
Stylized generation
To further explore the applicability of FRPSS in practical scenarios, FRPSS is ex-
tended to downstream stylization tasks. In the stylization task, FRPSS uses a pre-trained
CLIP model to provide cross-modal semantic priors. As shown in Fig. 1, the CLIP-SSPE
module is incorporated into each generator Gi in both the Patch-VAE and Patch-GAN
stages. FRPSS progressively accumulates the generation results at different scales to
form the final generated image rather than relying on the last generator to indepen-
dently generate the final image. As a result, semantic constraints applied only at the
final scale cannot sufficiently affect the visual features already formed at previous scales.
CLIP-SSPE therefore progressively applies semantic supervision at each scale and in-
troduces the target semantics scale by scale during the multi-scale generation process.
As shown in Fig. 3, the CLIP-SSPE module contains a frozen CLIP text encoder ET ,
a frozen image encoder EI, and the SSPE module. ET and EI encode the text and
image, respectively, and project them into the joint embedding space. The SSPE module
adaptively extracts image patches according to the generated images at different scales.
Following the setting of CLIPStyler [16], CLIP-SSPE adopts a directional CLIP super-
vision mechanism. The module constructs the directional constraints Lglobal and Lpatch
at the global and patch-wise levels, respectively. The directional constraints make the
visual change direction from the real image to the generated image consistent with the
semantic change direction from the source text prompt to the target text prompt.
Figure 3: Illustration of the CLIP stylization loss calculation based on the CLIP-SSPE
module.
The inputs of CLIP-SSPE include the real image xreal, the generated image xfake at
11


the current scale, and the source text prompt src and target text prompt trg provided
by the user. Here, src indicates that the input image is an image, while trg indicates
the target style to be changed. CLIP-SSPE inputs the two text prompts into the frozen
CLIP text encoder ET to obtain the corresponding text features ET
src and ET
trg.
To
align the image transformation direction with the text semantic transformation direction
in the CLIP joint embedding space, the text direction vector ∆T is defined based on
CLIPStyler [16] as follows:
∆T = ET
trg −ET
src.
(14)
At any scale, the CLIP-SSPE module uses the complete generated image and the
corresponding real image to calculate the global directional CLIP loss. The frozen image
encoder EI extracts the features EI
fake and EI
real from xfake and xreal, respectively.
Following CLIPStyler [16], the global image direction vector ∆Iglobal is defined as follows:
∆Iglobal = EI
fake −EI
real.
(15)
The global directional loss Lglobal is used to maximize the cosine similarity between
∆Iglobal and ∆T:
Lglobal = 1 −
∆Iglobal · ∆T
∥∆Iglobal∥· ∥∆T∥.
(16)
For the calculation of the patch-wise directional CLIP constraint, SSPE extracts
different numbers of image patches at different scales. Assume that H × W denotes the
image resolution at the current scale. To perform local image patch extraction, SSPE
adopts a sliding crop mechanism. The size r of the sliding crop window is adaptively
adjusted according to the current image resolution and is restricted to the predefined
range [64, 128]. The size r of the sliding crop window is calculated as follows:
r = max

64, min
min(H, W)
2

, 128

.
(17)
To ensure a sufficient overlap ratio between the cropped image patches for maintaining
texture continuity, the sliding stride s is defined as half of the window size:
s = r
2.
(18)
Based on the above configuration, for an image with a resolution of H × W, the total
number D of image patches extracted by the sliding window is:
D =
H
s

×
W
s

.
(19)
It is worth noting that when the image size is smaller than the minimum window limit or
when the image patch extraction condition cannot be satisfied, SSPE no longer performs
local cropping. Instead, SSPE directly uses the complete generated image and real image
to calculate the directional constraint. In the case, the patch-wise constraint degenerates
into the global constraint.
During image patch cropping, let pj
fake and pj
real denote the j-th corresponding
image patches cropped from the generated image and the real image, respectively. The
image direction vector ∆Ij
patch between the two patches is defined as follows [16]:
∆Ij
patch = EI(pj
fake) −EI(pj
real).
(20)
12


Subsequently, CLIP-SSPE calculates the cosine distance between ∆Ij
patch and the text
direction vector ∆T. The arithmetic mean of the cosine losses corresponding to the D
image patches cropped at the current scale is then taken to obtain the final patch-wise
directional loss Lpatch [16]:
Lpatch = 1
D
D
X
j=1
 
1 −
∆Ij
patch · ∆T
∥∆Ij
patch∥· ∥∆T∥
!
.
(21)
Finally, the Total Variation (TV) regularization loss Ltv [16] is also introduced into
the CLIP-SSPE module. The overall CLIP stylization loss is:
Lclip = λglobalLglobal + λpatchLpatch + λtvLtv.
(22)
where λglobal, λpatch, and λtv are hyperparameters used to balance the contributions of
the losses.
In the experiments, λglobal, λpatch, and λtv are set to 3.0, 5.0, and 0.02,
respectively.
The above text-guided method uses the text direction vector ∆T as the target se-
mantic direction. The directional supervision mechanism of CLIP-SSPE can be further
extended to image-guided style transfer tasks. As shown in Fig. 4, the image-guided
method uses the target style image to provide the change direction information. Let xsrc
Figure 4: Illustration of the loss calculation for image-guided style transfer.
denote the original image and xref denote the target style image. FRPSS inputs the two
images into the frozen CLIP image encoder EI, respectively, to obtain the corresponding
image features EI
src and EI
ref. Subsequently, the style change direction vector ∆Istyle is
constructed according to the difference between the target image style feature vector and
the original image feature vector:
∆Istyle = EI
ref −EI
src.
(23)
During image-guided style transfer, ∆Istyle replaces the text direction vector ∆T in Eq.
(14), and the global and patch-wise directional constraints are still used for optimization.
In this way, the CLIP-SSPE module uses the visual information provided by the target
style image xref to guide the generated result toward the target style.
13


4
Experiments
4.1
Experimental datasets
FRPSS is evaluated on three general single-image generation datasets to examine
the generation capability for images with different textures and semantic structures,
including Places50 [8], MSID16 [8], and SIGD16 [36]. Places50 contains 50 scene images
with complex semantic structures. MSID16 contains 16 images covering multiple types
of visual content, including plants, animals, and natural landscapes. SIGD16 contains
16 images with significant topological variations and is used to evaluate the generation
stability of the model. The dataset adopted by SinDDM [13] is used for the text-guided
stylization experiments. The dataset provided by InstantStyle-Plus [37] is used for the
image-guided stylization experiments.
4.2
Evaluation metrics
Single Image Fréchet Inception Distance (SIFID) [8] and Learned Perceptual Image
Patch Similarity (LPIPS) [38] are used to quantitatively evaluate the generated results.
SIFID follows the Fréchet distance form of the standard FID [39], but the statistical
object is changed from the feature distribution of an image set to the spatial feature
distribution within a single image. Given a real image xr and a generated image xf, a
shallow convolutional block of the pre-trained Inception-V3 [40] is used to extract the
feature map ψ(x) ∈RC×H×W .
The feature map is then unfolded along the spatial
dimensions into H × W C-dimensional feature vectors to estimate the mean µ ∈RC and
covariance matrix Σ ∈RC×C of the local feature distribution of the image. The SIFID
between the real image and a single generated image is defined as follows:
SIFID(xr, xf) = ∥µr −µf∥2
2 + Tr

Σr + Σf −2 (ΣrΣf)1/2
,
(24)
where µr, Σr and µf, Σf denote the feature means and covariance matrices corresponding
to the real image and the generated image, respectively, and Tr(·) denotes the trace of a
matrix. For each original image, 20 samples are generated by the model, and the SIFID of
each generated sample with respect to the original image is calculated. The mean SIFID
is used as the final evaluation result. A lower SIFID value indicates that the distribution
of the generated image is closer to that of the original image in terms of deep feature
statistics.
To measure the diversity among the generated results, the pairwise LPIPS distances
among the generated samples corresponding to the same original image are calculated.
The LPIPS value is calculated based on the deep features extracted by the pre-trained
AlexNet [41, 8] network ϕ(x).
For any two generated images x and y, their LPIPS
distance is defined as follows [38]:
d(x, y) =
L
X
l=1
1
HlWl
Hl
X
h=1
Wl
X
w=1
wl ⊙

ˆϕl(x)h,w −ˆϕl(y)h,w

2
2 ,
(25)
where ϕl(x) ∈RCl×Hl×Wl denotes the feature map output by the l-th layer of the pre-
trained AlexNet, Hl and Wl denote the height and width of the feature map at the
layer, (h, w) denotes the spatial position coordinates on the feature map, ϕl(x)h,w ∈RCl
denotes the channel feature vector corresponding to the position, ˆϕl(·) denotes the feature
obtained by normalizing ϕl(·) along the channel dimension, and wl denotes the linear
14


weighting coefficient of the l-th layer.
For the 20 samples generated from the same
original image, the LPIPS distances of all 190 non-repeated image pairs are calculated,
and their mean is taken as the diversity metric. A higher LPIPS value indicates a larger
perceptual difference among the generated samples, while a lower value indicates a higher
degree of homogeneity among the samples.
4.3
Qualitative and quantitative analysis of image generation
Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 visually compare the generation results of FRPSS with those of
other methods on the Places50 and SIGD16 datasets.
Figure 5: Images generated by different methods on the Places50 dataset.
Some results generated by traditional multi-scale generation models, such as Sin-
GAN [8] and ConSinGAN [9], show obvious structural misalignment. Structural devia-
tions produced at low-resolution stages may accumulate during the progressive generation
process, further leading to local incoherence such as path distortion and mountain discon-
tinuity. Similarly, although HP-VAE-GAN [10] achieves a relatively high LPIPS score,
obvious global structural misalignment can still be observed in some generated results.
GPNN [36] can synthesize relatively realistic local textures, but the method tends to
copy the nearest image patches from the training image, thereby limiting the diversity
of generated samples to some extent. In addition, diffusion-based single-image genera-
tion methods such as SinDiffusion [11] have a strong capability for detail synthesis, but
color leakage between regions or local stitching incoherence can still be observed in some
generated results.
Compared with the above methods, FRPSS achieves a better balance between global
structural integrity and local visual fidelity. MSR-FAGS performs feature rearrangement
and matching in the low-scale feature space to provide more possibilities for global layout
variations, while preserving the coherence of the spatial structure as much as possible.
15


Figure 6: Images generated by different methods on the SIGD16 dataset.
As shown in the figures, the images generated by FRPSS exhibit fewer spatial misalign-
ment artifacts and maintain better consistency with the original image in terms of color
distribution and contrast.
Table 1 reports the quantitative comparison results on the Places50, MSID16, and
SIGD16 datasets.
In terms of SIFID, FRPSS achieves the best results on all three
datasets, indicating that the generated results of FRPSS are closer to the original images
in terms of deep feature statistical distributions. In contrast, some comparison methods,
such as SinDDM and SinDiffusion, obtain relatively high LPIPS scores, but their SIFID
values are also relatively high, indicating larger deviations between the generated results
and the feature distributions of the original images. Methods such as ConSinGAN and
SinGAN have relatively low SIFID values, but their LPIPS scores are also relatively low,
indicating limited diversity. The results show that FRPSS can still maintain local texture
statistical characteristics similar to those of the original images while introducing feature
variations.
In terms of generation diversity, FRPSS achieves competitive LPIPS scores on all
three datasets, indicating that the generated samples maintain good perceptual diversity
while preserving the visual characteristics of the original images.
4.4
Image stylization transformation
The section presents the applications of FRPSS to multiple downstream image ma-
nipulation tasks, including text-guided image style transfer, text-guided image content
generation, image-guided style transfer, and paint-to-image.
Text-guided style transfer. Here, src is set to “a photo”, and trg is set to “anime
style”, “Monet style”, “Picasso style”, and “Van Gogh style”. CLIP-SSPE constructs di-
rectional constraints according to the visual change direction from the real image to the
generated image and the semantic change direction from the source text to the target
16


Table 1: Quantitative comparison on the three datasets.
Places50
MSID16
SIGD16
SIFID↓
LPIPS↑
SIFID↓
LPIPS↑
SIFID↓
LPIPS↑
SinGAN
0.09
0.266
0.28
0.279
0.27
0.344
HP-VAE-GAN
0.30
0.380
0.05
0.447
0.07
0.449
ConSinGAN
0.06
0.305
0.28
0.296
0.06
0.287
GPNN
0.07
0.238
0.57
0.289
0.11
0.317
SinDDM
0.68
0.345
0.36
0.364
0.85
0.349
PetsGAN
0.08
0.310
0.29
0.342
0.32
0.340
SinFusion
0.64
0.368
0.48
0.339
0.69
0.365
MultiOSG
0.39
0.310
0.20
0.382
0.13
0.362
SinDiffusion
0.06
0.387
0.49
0.489
0.43
0.445
StructDiff
0.04
0.311
0.40
0.368
0.14
0.330
Ours
0.02
0.321
0.03
0.386
0.03
0.356
Note: SIFID (↓) means lower is better; LPIPS (↑) means higher is better.
Boldface indicates the best result; underlining indicates the second-best result.
text, so that the generated results preserve the main content and spatial structure of the
original image as much as possible while introducing the target style. Fig. 7, Fig. 8, Fig.
9, and Fig. 10 compare the generated results of FRPSS and SinDDM [13] under the four
text prompts.
Figure 7: Text-guided stylization results using anime-style text prompts.
From the generated results, SinDDM has difficulty in completely preserving the
original scene content during some text-guided style transfer processes. SinDDM is a
diffusion-based single-image generation method and performs semantic guidance during
the iterative denoising sampling process. Therefore, some generated results may exhibit
local content changes together with changes in visual style. For example, in Fig. 7 and
Fig. 9, when trg is set to “Anime Style” and “Picasso Style”, faces or abstract elements
that do not exist in the original image are introduced into the sky or mountain regions
in some results. In Fig. 8 and Fig. 10, when trg is set to “Van Gogh Style” and “Monet
Style”, local semantic content changes can also be observed.
The above phenomena
17


Figure 8: Text-guided stylization results using Monet-style text prompts.
Figure 9: Text-guided stylization results using Picasso-style text prompts.
Figure 10: Text-guided stylization results using Van Gogh-style text prompts.
indicate that SinDDM may introduce content that does not exist in the original image
during text-guided style transfer.
In contrast, FRPSS can better preserve the main
content of the original image, such as Joshua trees, grasslands, and rocks, while reducing
the generation of additional content.
Text-guided content generation. The text-guided image content generation task
requires the model not only to change the visual appearance of the image, but also to
18


generate content consistent with the target semantics according to the text prompt. The
same input form as text-guided style transfer is adopted for the task. src is still set to “a
photo”, while trg is set according to the desired semantic content, including “Matterhorn
mountain”, “Sunset”, “A fire in the forest”, “Grand canyon”, and “Oasis”. Fig. 11 shows
the generated results of FRPSS and the comparison method under different text prompts.
When trg is set to “Oasis”, SinDDM fails to form an obvious oasis landscape. In addition,
Figure 11: Text-guided image content generation results.
when trg is set to “A fire in the forest” and “Sunset”, some generated results of SinDDM
mainly show changes in color or local texture and still differ from the semantic content
described by the target text.
In contrast, FRPSS can produce more obvious target
semantic changes.
Image-guided style transfer. The performance of FRPSS on the image-guided
style transfer task is further evaluated. Here, xsrc is set to the content image shown on
the left side of Fig. 12, and xref is set to the five style reference images shown in the
first row on the right side of Fig. 12, including Van Gogh style, ink landscape painting
style, expressionist style, watercolor city style, and golden hall style. The second and
third rows on the right side of Fig. 12 show the generated results of GPDM [42] and
FRPSS on the task.
Figure 12: Image-guided style transfer results.
As shown in Fig. 12, GPDM tends to produce over-smoothing during image-level
feature injection, which makes the boundaries of some main structures in the original
19


image blurred. In contrast, FRPSS can better transfer the texture features from the
target style image to the original image while preserving the clarity of the main structures
in the original image.
Paint-to-image. The goal of the paint-to-image task is to generate images with
natural textures and visual details according to the structural layout provided by a paint.
FRPSS follows the directional guidance mechanism used in image-guided style transfer.
Here, xsrc is set to the paint shown in the Paint column of Fig. 13, and xref is set to the
natural image shown in the Image column.
Figure 13: Paint-to-image results.
Baseline methods such as SinGAN and SAMDSinGAN usually inject paint infor-
mation at specific low-scale stages of the generation process, but the implicit feature
fusion tends to make the texture transfer in the generated results relatively rigid. In
contrast, FRPSS can progressively add textures and visual details while preserving the
main spatial layout of the paint, thereby generating more natural image results.
4.5
Outpainting
The goal of the outpainting task is to generate visual content beyond the boundaries
of the original image. Following the implementation of MultiOSG [35], during inference,
FRPSS first encodes the low-scale image to obtain the feature vector Z of the original
image. Subsequently, the MSR-FAGS module generates the left extension feature Z∗
left
and the right extension feature Z∗
right, respectively. The two extension features are then
concatenated with the original feature Z along the width W. Since the generator has a
fully convolutional structure, its parameters do not depend on a fixed spatial size of the
input feature. Therefore, the concatenated extended feature can be directly input into
the generator for subsequent generation. During the subsequent multi-scale generation
process, bilinear interpolation is still applied to the current outpainting result at each
scale according to the original scale ratio to progressively adjust its spatial resolution.
As shown in Fig. 14, the generated outpainting regions maintain good continuity with
the original image in terms of visual texture and overall scene layout.
20


Figure 14: Image outpainting. The yellow boxes indicate the original images.
4.6
Parameter influence analysis
The key hyperparameters of the MSR-FAGS module are quantitatively and quali-
tatively analyzed on the SIGD16 dataset, with a focus on the effects of the feature slice
width α and the number of interpolated features Q on generation quality and diversity.
The quantitative results are shown in Table 2, and the corresponding qualitative results
are shown in Fig. 15 and Fig. 16.
Table 2: Parameter influence analysis of the MSR-FAGS module on the SIGD16 dataset.
SIFID (↓) and LPIPS (↑) results under different feature slice widths (α) and numbers of
interpolated features (Q).
Settings
Configuration
SIFID ↓
LPIPS ↑
Varying α
(Q = 2)
α = 2
0.043
0.125
α = 4
0.034
0.244
α = 8
0.031
0.317
α = 16
0.033
0.353
Varying Q
(α = 16)
Q = 0
0.033
0.356
Q = 2
0.032
0.353
Q = 4
0.032
0.349
Q = 8
0.031
0.347
Table 2 shows the effects of the feature slice width α on generation fidelity and
diversity. When α = 2, the LPIPS value of the model decreases to 0.125, and the SIFID
is 0.043. Combined with the qualitative results in Fig. 15, an excessively small α limits
the spatial rearrangement range of the features and makes the model tend to reproduce
the original image, thereby limiting the diversity of the generated results. As α increases
to 16, LPIPS increases to 0.353, while SIFID remains at a relatively low level (0.033).
The result indicates that appropriately increasing α can improve the diversity of the
generated samples while keeping SIFID at a relatively low level.
With α = 16 fixed, the effect of the number of interpolated features Q is further
examined. When Q = 0, the model achieves the highest LPIPS score (0.356), but the
generated results tend to show local stitching artifacts due to the lack of intermediate
features generated by interpolation. As the number of interpolated features Q increases
to 8, LPIPS slightly decreases to 0.347, while SIFID further decreases to 0.031. The red
regions in Fig. 16 indicate that introducing an appropriate amount of feature interpo-
21


Figure 15: Effect of the feature slice width α.
lation helps the model synthesize more natural and coherent semantic features, thereby
generating images with both structural plausibility and novelty.
4.7
Stylization ablation experiment
The effects of the global directional loss Lglobal and the local directional loss Lpatch
on the text-guided stylization results are analyzed. Here, the original image is the sunset
scene image shown on the left side of Fig. 17. src is set to “a photo”, while trg is set
to “Rococo Style”, “Turner Style”, “Cubism Style”, “Ink Painting Style”, and “Pop Art
Style”, respectively. As shown in Fig. 17, when only Lglobal is used, the generated results
mainly show changes in the overall color tone, while the local style textures are relatively
weak. When only Lpatch is used, more obvious local textures can be introduced into the
generated results, but the overall visual consistency is relatively insufficient. When the
two losses are jointly used, both global style changes and local texture generation can be
taken into account.
4.8
Limitations
Although FRPSS achieves good generation results on various single-image generation
tasks, it still has certain limitations in some complex scenes. As shown in Fig. 18, for
images such as Chinese landscape paintings and murals that contain large background
regions and sparse semantic objects, the generated results may exhibit local content
missing.
For example, small semantic regions such as thatched cottages and human
22


Figure 16: Effect of the number of interpolated features Q. The red boxes show bird
images with obvious variations generated by FRPSS.
Figure 17: Effects of the global and patch-wise CLIP losses on the stylization results.
faces in the original image are not completely preserved in some generated results. The
phenomenon may be related to the structural rearrangement of MSR-FAGS in the low-
scale feature space.
In low-scale representations, large background regions occupy a
relatively high spatial proportion, while local objects such as thatched cottages and
human faces are represented by only a small number of feature regions. During feature
rearrangement and matching, the sparse semantic regions may be affected by background
features with larger proportions, thereby weakening their structural information and
23


causing local content missing. In addition, the current stylization mechanism of FRPSS
directly introduces the target semantic direction into the training process of the multi-
scale generative model, resulting in a certain degree of coupling between the generative
model and the specific target style. When the target style or guidance condition changes,
the model usually needs to be retrained. Therefore, switching among multiple styles still
incurs a certain training overhead.
Figure 18: Failure cases of FRPSS.
5
Conclusion
Existing single-image generation methods usually lack explicit global structural con-
straints and are prone to structural misalignment or incoherent results during generation.
To address the problem, the paper proposes the FRPSS single-image generation frame-
work. FRPSS uses the MSR-FAGS module to rearrange, augment, and match the latent
features of a single training image in the Pre-Shape Space, providing latent features
with structural variations for the subsequent multi-scale generation process and thereby
reducing the risk of structural misalignment during generation. In addition, the CLIP-
SSPE module achieves controllable semantic guidance through global and patch-wise
directional CLIP constraints. Experimental results show that FRPSS achieves good gen-
eration fidelity on three single-image datasets and realizes an effective trade-off between
fidelity and diversity. Qualitative experiments further verify its effectiveness on down-
stream tasks with CLIP-SSPE, including text-guided style transfer, text-guided content
generation, image-guided style transfer, and paint-to-image.
FRPSS still has certain limitations. On the one hand, in complex scenes containing
large background regions and sparse semantic objects, low-scale feature rearrangement
may weaken the structural information of local semantic regions. On the other hand,
the current stylization mechanism directly introduces the target semantic direction into
the training process of the multi-scale model, resulting in a certain degree of coupling
between the generative model and the target style. When the target style or guidance
condition changes, the model usually needs to be retrained, thereby limiting the flexibility
and application efficiency of the model in scenarios requiring rapid switching among
multiple styles. In the future, region importance modeling or attention mechanisms can
be further introduced into MSR-FAGS to enhance the preservation of sparse semantic
regions. Meanwhile, conditional injection mechanisms that decouple semantic control
from the training process of the generative model can be explored, allowing the model
24


to perform style control according to different texts or reference images during inference
and thereby reducing the repeated training overhead for different target styles.
25


References
[1]
Ian J Goodfellow et al. “Generative adversarial nets”. In: Advances in neural infor-
mation processing systems 27 (2014).
[2]
Tero Karras et al. “Analyzing and improving the image quality of stylegan”. In: Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition.
2020, pp. 8110–8119.
[3]
Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. “Denoising diffusion probabilistic mod-
els”. In: Advances in neural information processing systems 33 (2020), pp. 6840–
6851.
[4]
Robin Rombach et al. “High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion mod-
els”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition. 2022, pp. 10684–10695.
[5]
Erfan Azqadan, Hamid Jahed, and Arash Arami. “Predictive microstructure image
generation using denoising diffusion probabilistic models”. In: Acta Materialia 261
(2023), p. 119406.
[6]
Teerath Kumar et al. “Image Data Augmentation Approaches: A Comprehensive
Survey and Future Directions”. In: IEEE Access 12 (2024), pp. 187536–187571.
doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2024.3470122.
[7]
Connor Shorten and Taghi M Khoshgoftaar. “A survey on image data augmentation
for deep learning”. In: Journal of big data 6.1 (2019), pp. 1–48.
[8]
Tamar Rott Shaham, Tali Dekel, and Tomer Michaeli. “SinGAN: Learning a Gen-
erative Model From a Single Natural Image”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV). Oct. 2019.
[9]
Tobias Hinz et al. “Improved Techniques for Training Single-Image GANs”. In:
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer
Vision (WACV). Feb. 2021, pp. 1300–1309.
[10]
Shir Gur, Sagie Benaim, and Lior Wolf. “Hierarchical Patch VAE-GAN: Gener-
ating Diverse Videos from a Single Sample”. In: Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems. Ed. by H. Larochelle et al. Vol. 33. Curran Associates, Inc.,
2020, pp. 16761–16772. url: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/
paper/2020/file/c2f32522a84d5e6357e6abac087f1b0b-Paper.pdf.
[11]
Weilun Wang et al. “SinDiffusion: Learning a Diffusion Model From a Single Natural
Image”. In: IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence 47.5
(2025), pp. 3412–3423.
[12]
Yinxi He et al. “StructDiff: A Structure-Preserving and Spatially Controllable Dif-
fusion Model for Single-Image Generation”. In: arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.12575
(2026).
[13]
Vladimir Kulikov et al. “Sinddm: A single image denoising diffusion model”. In:
International conference on machine learning. PMLR. 2023, pp. 17920–17930.
[14]
Narek Tumanyan et al. “Splicing vit features for semantic appearance transfer”. In:
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recogni-
tion. 2022, pp. 10748–10757.
[15]
Or Patashnik et al. “StyleCLIP: Text-Driven Manipulation of StyleGAN Imagery”.
In: 2021 IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV). IEEE
Computer Society. 2021, pp. 2065–2074.
26


[16]
Gihyun Kwon and Jong Chul Ye. “Clipstyler: Image style transfer with a single
text condition”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition. 2022, pp. 18062–18071.
[17]
Martha Paskin et al. “A Kendall shape space approach to 3D shape estimation
from 2D landmarks”. In: European conference on computer vision. Springer. 2022,
pp. 363–379.
[18]
David G Kendall. “Shape manifolds, procrustean metrics, and complex projective
spaces”. In: Bulletin of the London mathematical society 16.2 (1984), pp. 81–121.
[19]
Tom Tirer et al. “Deep internal learning: Deep learning from a single input”. In:
IEEE Signal Processing Magazine 41.4 (2024), pp. 40–57.
[20]
Zicheng Zhang, Congying Han, and Tiande Guo. “ExSinGAN: Learning an Ex-
plainable Generative Model from a Single Image”. In: 32nd British Machine Vision
Conference 2021, BMVC 2021, Online, November 22-25, 2021. BMVA Press, 2021,
251. url: https://www.bmvc2021-virtualconference.com/assets/papers/
0348.pdf.
[21]
Yaniv Nikankin, Niv Haim, and Michal Irani. “SinFusion: Training Diffusion Models
on a Single Image or Video”. In: International Conference on Machine Learning,
ICML 2023, 23-29 July 2023, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. Ed. by Andreas Krause
et al. Proceedings of Machine Learning Research. PMLR, 2023, pp. 26199–26214.
url: https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/nikankin23a.html.
[22]
Zicheng Zhang et al. “Petsgan: Rethinking priors for single image generation”.
In: Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial intelligence. Vol. 36. 3. 2022,
pp. 3408–3416.
[23]
Jinshu Chen et al. “Mogan: Morphologic-structure-aware generative learning from
a single image”. In: IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems
54.4 (2023), pp. 2021–2033.
[24]
Eyyup Yildiz, Mehmet Erkan Yuksel, and Selcuk Sevgen. “A single-image GAN
model using self-attention mechanism and DenseNets”. In: Neurocomputing 596
(2024), p. 127873.
[25]
Haojun Qiu, Kiriakos N. Kutulakos, and David B. Lindell. “Efficient and Training-
Free Single-Image Diffusion Models”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). 2026.
[26]
Yingli Hou et al. “Single image and video generation using a receptive diffu-
sion model with convolutional spatiotemporal blocks”. In: Applied Soft Computing
(2025), p. 113509.
[27]
Ayushi Verma, Tapas Badal, and Abhay Bansal. “A novel framework for diverse
video generation from a single video using frame-conditioned denoising diffusion
probabilistic model and ConvNeXt-V2”. In: Image and Vision Computing 154
(2025), p. 105422.
[28]
Alec Radford et al. “Learning transferable visual models from natural language su-
pervision”. In: International conference on machine learning. PmLR. 2021, pp. 8748–
8763.
[29]
Rinon Gal et al. “Stylegan-nada: Clip-guided domain adaptation of image genera-
tors”. In: ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 41.4 (2022), pp. 1–13.
27


[30]
Gwanghyun Kim, Taesung Kwon, and Jong Chul Ye. “Diffusionclip: Text-guided
diffusion models for robust image manipulation”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. 2022, pp. 2426–2435.
[31]
Yuexing Han et al. “Recognition of multiple configurations of objects with limited
data”. In: Pattern Recognition 43.4 (2010), pp. 1467–1475.
[32]
Yuexing Han, Hideki Koike, and Masanori Idesawa. “Recognizing objects with mul-
tiple configurations”. In: Pattern Analysis and Applications 17.1 (2014), pp. 195–
209.
[33]
Irina Higgins et al. “beta-vae: Learning basic visual concepts with a constrained
variational framework”. In: International conference on learning representations.
2017.
[34]
Ishaan Gulrajani et al. “Improved training of wasserstein gans”. In: Advances in
neural information processing systems 30 (2017).
[35]
Yao Gou et al. “Multiple one-shot image generation via deep structure reshuffle”.
In: Neural Networks (2025), p. 107862.
[36]
Niv Granot et al. “Drop the gan: In defense of patches nearest neighbors as single
image generative models”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on com-
puter vision and pattern recognition. 2022, pp. 13460–13469.
[37]
Haofan Wang et al. “InstantStyle-Plus: Style Transfer with Content-Preserving in
Text-to-Image Generation”. In: CoRR abs/2407.00788 (2024). doi: 10 . 48550 /
ARXIV.2407.00788. arXiv: 2407.00788. url: https://doi.org/10.48550/
arXiv.2407.00788.
[38]
Richard Zhang et al. “The unreasonable effectiveness of deep features as a per-
ceptual metric”. In: 2018 IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition. IEEE. 2018, pp. 586–595.
[39]
Martin Heusel et al. “Gans trained by a two time-scale update rule converge to a
local nash equilibrium”. In: Advances in neural information processing systems 30
(2017).
[40]
Christian Szegedy et al. “Rethinking the inception architecture for computer vi-
sion”. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recog-
nition. 2016, pp. 2818–2826.
[41]
Alex Krizhevsky, Ilya Sutskever, and Geoffrey E Hinton. “Imagenet classification
with deep convolutional neural networks”. In: Advances in neural information pro-
cessing systems 25 (2012).
[42]
Ariel Elnekave and Yair Weiss. “Generating natural images with direct patch distri-
butions matching”. In: Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision
(ECCV). 2022.
28
