Preprint
PERSONALIZED IMAGE GENERATION
WITH REASONING AND REFLECTION
Bo Ni1, Ngoc N. Tran1, Qinwen Ge1, Franck Dernoncourt2
Seunghyun Yoon2, Samyadeep Basu3, Sungchul Kim2, Puneet Mathur2
Nedim Lipka2, Tong Yu2, Yu Wang4, Ryan A. Rossi2, Tyler Derr1
1Vanderbilt University
2Adobe Systems
3University of Maryland, College Park
4University of Georgia
ABSTRACT
Personalized image generation has remained narrowly focused on conditional
synthesis from curated visual exemplars, rather than capturing who a user is. In
practice, however, a user’s personal context is much richer, comprising reviews,
posts, images, captions, and metadata accumulated over time. A truly personalized
generator should leverage this history to produce images aligned with the user’s
lifestyle and aesthetic preferences. To this end, we introduce the first unified
benchmark for personalized image generation from user histories. The benchmark
comprises two complementary tasks and a multi-axis evaluation protocol that as-
sesses target fidelity, visual quality, user distinguishability, semantic alignment with
the user’s history, and task-specific utility. Grounded in real-world e-commerce and
social media settings, the benchmark includes: (1) Personalized Scene Generation,
which places a given object in a scene that reflects a user’s preferences and lifestyle,
motivated by personalized product presentation; and (2) Personalized Creative
Generation, which generates a novel image on a specified topic that is faithful to
a user’s aesthetic and visual identity, motivated by social media content creation.
We further propose PEARL, which couples a multimodal reasoner with a frozen
image generator in an interleaved reason–reflect loop optimized with differential
data reward. Across both tasks, PEARL outperforms strong baselines, achieving an
average improvement of 15% across personalization metrics.
1
INTRODUCTION
In modern AI systems, adapting outputs to individual users’ needs, preferences, and communication
styles is essential for producing content that is relevant, engaging, and broadly useful (Salemi et al.,
2024; Zhang et al., 2025). This principle of user modeling has long been studied in the information
retrieval (Teevan et al., 2005; Bennett et al., 2012), human-computer interaction (Schiaffino & Amandi,
2004), and recommender (Naumov et al., 2019; He et al., 2017; Koren et al., 2009) communities,
where systems such as search engines, news feeds, and product recommenders rely on user histories
to deliver personalized experiences. More recently, the same principle has been extended to large
language models through personalized text generation, where conditioning generation on a user’s
historical posts, reviews, and interactions substantially improves the relevance and quality of the
output (Ni et al., 2026; Xu et al., 2025).
Building on this line of work, recent personalized text generation methods (Salemi et al., 2024;
Au et al., 2025; Ni et al., 2026; Li et al., 2024; Kumar et al., 2024) leverage a user’s long history
to produce text that mirrors that user’s writing style, topical interests, and stated preferences. In
contrast, personalized image generation has remained focused on conditioned image generation (Wei
et al., 2025; Ruiz et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2023; Ye et al., 2023), where personalization is defined
as reproducing specific visual concepts (e.g., faces or painting styles) from a small set of reference
images while adhering to novel text prompts. However, real-world personalization requires a richer
understanding of who the user is to generate images that align with the user’s lifestyle, interests, and
aesthetic preferences. For example, in e-commerce, a personalized product background generated
1
arXiv:2610.00737v1  [cs.CV]  30 Sep 2026


Preprint
Figure 1: Personalized Image Generation based on User History.
based on the user’s inferred preferences can drive higher click-through rates than generic catalog
images (Czapp et al., 2024; Amat et al., 2018). Similarly, social media users cultivate distinctive
visual identities through their posts, so generated content that aligns with this identity is more likely
to integrate naturally into their feeds and attract more engagement (Møller et al., 2026).
To bridge this gap, we introduce PMH-IG (Personalized Multi-modal History conditioned Image
Generation), a unified benchmark for personalized image generation from realistic user histories.
PMH-IG consists of in-the-wild rich user histories collected from online reviews and social media
that can be utilized for identity inference and downstream image generation. Compared to existing
benchmarks (Xu et al., 2025; Dunlop et al., 2025), which provide a few curated reference images
per user and evaluate concept reproduction under novel prompts, PMH-IG provides realistic user
histories and evaluates whether a model can infer the user’s identity and synthesize a new image that
reflects it. PMH-IG instantiates identity-aware image generation through two complementary tasks:
Personalized Scene Generation and Personalized Creative Generation, where the model must render a
target product or topic into an image grounded in the user’s history. The two tasks cover the principal
axes of real-world identity: Personalized Scene Generation draws on Amazon review histories, which
encode what a user does through textual behavioral signals, while Personalized Creative Generation
draws on Instagram post histories, which encode how a user looks through visual aesthetic signals.
Our experiments show that current personalization methods struggle on both tasks, as they cannot
reason over the complex user history and translate it into an appropriate image.
We thus further propose PEARL, a reasoning-interleaved framework that addresses the core limitation
underlying these failures. Current personalization frameworks (Xu et al., 2025; Shen et al., 2024)
treat the user history as a unified conditioning signal and fuse it directly into the generator, bypassing
any explicit reasoning about what the history implies for the scene, the user’s identity, or the aesthetic
that should govern the output. This leaves personalization cues entangled in dense vectors that the
generator must decode implicitly. An alternative is to externalize this inference with a multimodal
reasoner that consumes the history and emits a textual image-generation plan for a frozen text-to-
image generator to render, but the plan is written without knowing how the generator will instantiate
it, so personalization cues correctly identified in the history can still be lost at render time. PEARL
addresses the challenge by first reasoning over the user’s history to produce an explicit image
generation plan and an initial rendering, then reflecting on that rendering by comparing it against the
history to identify concrete personalization mismatches, and finally re-renders from a corrected plan
that is grounded in the first rendering. PEARL is trained through a two-stage cross-modal reflection
tuning procedure that first learns to plan from user history and then to revise plans in light of rendered
evidence. In summary, our contribution can be summarized as follows:
• We introduce PMH-IG, the first benchmark for personalized image generation from realistic user
histories, which comprises two complementary tasks, Personalized Scene Generation on Amazon
review histories and Personalized Creative Generation on Instagram post histories.
• We propose PEARL, a novel reasoning-interleaved framework for identity-aware image generation
that first reasons over a user’s history to produce an explicit image-generation plan and an initial
rendering, then reflects on that rendering against the history to identify personalization mismatches,
and finally re-renders from a corrected plan. The reasoner is trained through a two-stage cross-
modal reflection tuning procedure.
2


Preprint
• We conduct extensive experiments along three evaluation axes: Image generation quality, person-
alization, and MLLM-as-a-Judge that directly probes lifestyle alignment. PEARL substantially
outperforms strong personalization baselines on both tasks, and ablations confirm that both reason-
ing and reflection contribute measurable gains.
The rest of the paper will be organized as follows: Section 2 formally introduces the proposed
problem definition and benchmark details. Section 3 outlines the proposed PEARL framework, and
Section 4 reports the extensive experiment results and analysis. Section 5 further positions our work
within the existing literature and we conclude in Section 6.
2
A BENCHMARK FOR PERSONALIZED IMAGE GENERATION FROM USER
HISTORIES
In this section, we introduce PMH-IG, a new benchmark for personalized image generation from
multimodal user histories. Building from public user activities on online platforms, PMH-IG includes
two complementary tasks. Personalized Scene Generation asks a model to render a given object
in a scene that reflects a user’s inferred lifestyle and preferences, supporting applications such as
personalized product presentation and generative recommendation. Personalized Creative Generation
asks a model to generate a new image conditioned on a topic or content specification while preserving
the user’s established visual identity, supporting applications such as personalized content creation
and creator tooling. In the rest of this section, we will first formally define the general problem
setting, then describe the benchmark design principles and the two task instantiations. Lastly, we
introduce an overview of the evaluation protocol; detailed metric definitions are provided in Section 4.
The more detailed descriptive statistics for the datasets are provided in Appendix B.
2.1
PROBLEM DEFINITION
We study personalized image generation grounded in a user’s accumulated history. Different from
prior studies on conditional concept personalization (Shen et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2025; Wei et al.,
2025), where the reference typically depicts a single visual concept (a face, object, or painting style),
we focus on identity inference from a user’s naturally occurring multimodal history, where the model
must aggregate distributed behavioral and aesthetic cues across prior activities rather than reproduce
any single depicted concept.
For each user u, let Hu = {h(u)
1 , h(u)
2 , . . . , h(u)
Nu} be the user’s history, where each entry h(u)
i
records
one prior activity, such as a written review with an associated product image or a social media post
with its caption. We consider a personalized generation task T, which defines the form of personalized
image generation to perform and has an associated condition space CT . For a given task T, the model
receives the user history Hu and a task-specific generation condition c ∈CT , where c specifies what
the generated image should depict or preserve. The full notation is summarized in Appendix G.
Definition 1 (Personalized Image Generation from User History). Given a personalized generation
task T with condition space CT , the objective is to learn a task-specific parameterized model f T
θ that
maps a user’s multimodal history Hu and a generation condition c ∈CT to a personalized image
ˆIu,c = f T
θ (Hu, c),
(1)
such that ˆIu,c follows the generation condition c and reflects the user’s preferences, behaviors, and
aesthetics expressed in Hu.
We instantiate this general problem through two complementary tasks that probe different axes of
user identity, with task-specific datasets described in Sections 2.3 and 2.4 (with additional details,
such as data curation and instance construction are provided in Appendix B).
• Task: Personalized Scene Generation. The generation condition is a product or object image,
and the model f T
θ must preserve the object while placing it in a scene coherent with the user’s
inferred lifestyle and preferences. This task probes the model’s ability to identify a user’s recurring
activities, interests, and lifestyle contexts from the behavioral signals in Hu and translate them into
a coherent visual scene around the target product.
3


Preprint
• Task: Personalized Creative Generation. The generation condition is a topic prompt or content
specification, and the model f T
θ must depict the requested topic while matching the user’s estab-
lished visual identity. This task probes the model’s ability to capture a user’s aesthetic identity from
past visual posts and metadata in Hu, apply it to novel topics, and generate content that fits within
the user’s visual history.
2.2
BENCHMARK DESIGN PRINCIPLES
To operationalize the problem definition, we construct PMH-IG based on three design principles,
and each corresponds to a key benchmark choice: where personalization signals come from, what
role the generation condition plays, and how generated images are evaluated. Together they ensure
that PMH-IG rewards genuine identity inference with balanced image quality and personalization.
• Naturally occurring user histories. First, the personalization signal should come from a user’s
naturally occurring activity history rather than curated exemplars or synthetic preference templates.
Real personalization requires reasoning over the noisy, multimodal, and behaviorally grounded
traces that users leave on platforms, which is the very personalization cue we aim to study. PMH-
IG is therefore built exclusively on public user data, such as Amazon reviews and Instagram posts,
with each history entry corresponding to a real review or post authored by a real account.
• User signal–generation condition distinction. Second, generation condition c and user history
Hu play distinct roles. The condition specifies what should be generated, while the user history
provides the personalization signal that determines how it should be generated. In Personalized
Scene Generation, the product image determines the object to render, while the user history
determines the scene context. In Personalized Creative Image Generation, the topic determines
the content, while the user history determines the visual identity. Thus, the user plays the role of
context rather than subject, separating PMH-IG from concept personalization, where conditioning
images depict the subject to reproduce under new prompts.
• Multi-axis evaluation. Third, evaluation must jointly measure condition fidelity, visual quality, and
user-level personalization, since each can be satisfied without the others. A clean image that follows
the generation condition may still carry no user-specific signal, while an image that reflects the user
may fail to preserve personalization or maintain visual fidelity. PMH-IG therefore pairs image-
based measures with personalization and task-specific utility measures, including retrieval-based
and judge-based evaluations. We introduce these axes in Section 2.5 and Appendix D.
2.3
PERSONALIZED SCENE GENERATION: E-COMMERCE PRODUCT PRESENTATION
We instantiate Personalized Scene Generation in the e-commerce setting, where a product is presented
to a user through a generated lifestyle scene. The user history Hu = {(ℓi, oi)}n
i=1 is drawn from
Amazon reviews, with each entry pairing a written review ℓi with the corresponding reviewed product
image oi. The generation condition c = o⋆is the product image to be personalized, and the model
must generate a scene that preserves the product while adapting its surrounding context to the user’s
inferred interests and lifestyle. The same product should yield visibly different scenes for different
users: a flashlight should appear on a hiking trail for a user whose history is dominated by camping
gear, but perhaps in an engine bay for a user whose activities concentrate on home automotive repair.
2.4
PERSONALIZED CREATIVE GENERATION: SOCIAL MEDIA CONTENT POSTING
We instantiate Personalized Creative Generation in a social media setting, where a model generates
new visual content that fits a user’s established posting style. The user history Hu = {(zi, mi)}n
i=1 is
drawn from Instagram posts, with each entry pairing a social media image zi with associated caption
metadata mi. The generation condition c = t⋆is a topic or content specification, and the model must
generate an image that depicts the requested topic while matching the user’s recurring visual identity.
The same topic should yield visually different images for different users, reflecting differences in
composition, subject framing, color, setting, and presentation style.
2.5
EVALUATION PROTOCOL
Shared Metrics. We evaluate generations along two axes shared across both tasks: output quality,
captured by the LAION aesthetic predictor (Schuhmann et al., 2022) as a reference-free image
4


Preprint
quality score, and holistic user alignment, captured by an MLLM-as-Judge protocol that scores each
generation along style, content, and overall dimensions on a 1–5 scale. To mitigate single-model bias,
the MLLM judge is an ensemble of Gemini Flash 2.5 (Comanici & et al., 2025) and Qwen2.5-VL-
32B (Bai et al., 2023); we report the average of the two models’ scores. Both shared metrics are
reference-free, so they apply uniformly to the two tasks.
Personalized Scene Generation Specific Metrics. Because Personalized Scene Generation has no
naturally occurring ground-truth scene image per (user, product) pair, we evaluate user alignment
through a contrastive recommendation lens. We train a two-tower contrastive visual recommender on
real (review history, purchased product image) pairs from the training split, encode each generation
with the image tower, and report Hit@5 and MRR over a retrieval pool containing the user’s held-out
true purchase. The metrics ask whether a generation is sufficient on its own to recommend the right
product back to its user.
Personalized Creative Generation Specific Metrics.
Personalized Creative Generation has a
natural ground-truth target (the user’s actual held-out post), enabling reference-based metrics in
addition to user alignment. For fidelity to target, we report CLIP image similarity (CIS), DINO image
similarity (DIS), LPIPS, and MS-SSIM between each generation and the held-out post. For user
alignment, we train a StyleDiscriminator on (history, next post) pairs from training users and ask it to
retrieve the correct user from a decoy pool, stratified at two difficulty levels: inter-category R@1,
with decoys drawn from users in different topical categories, and intra-category R@1, with decoys
sharing the topical category but differing in visual style.
Full metric definitions, retrieval-pool construction and MLLM-judge prompts are in Appendix D.
3
PEARL: PERSONALIZED IMAGE GENERATION WITH REASONING AND
REFLECTION
We introduce PEARL, a reasoning-interleaved framework for personalized image generation (Figure 2).
A Stage-1 planner reasons over user history to produce a scene plan, which a frozen renderer turns
into an image. A Stage-2 reflector compares this image with the history, identifies personalization
mismatches, and revises the plan for the same renderer, grounding personalization in rendered
evidence. Both policies are jointly trained via alternating-policy DPO with a task-aligned retrieval
reward, each optimized against the renderer and the other policy used at inference. Sections 3.1–3.2
detail the policies, Section 3.3 describes training, and Appendix C provides pseudocode.
3.1
PLANNER: REASONING OVER USER HISTORY
Given the user history Hu, the planner translates it into a concrete specification that an image
generator can execute. Since the relevant scene for a generation condition c is rarely depicted in
any single entry of Hu, this requires reasoning over the full history rather than retrieval from it: the
planner must aggregate behavioral and aesthetic signals scattered across many entries and commit
them to a single coherent scene description. We instantiate the planner as a multimodal policy πϕ
that, given (Hu, c), autoregressively emits an interleaved output consisting of a chain-of-thought
reasoning trace r1 followed by a scene description s1,
(r1, s1) = πϕ(· | Hu, c),
(2)
where r1 summarizes what the history implies for the user’s lifestyle and aesthetic, and s1 is a
self-contained text prompt suitable as input to a text-to-image generator. A frozen image generator G
then produces the initial rendering I1 = G(s1, c).
3.2
REFLECTOR: CROSS-MODAL REFINEMENT FROM RENDERED EVIDENCE
The initial rendering I1 generated from the scene description s1 can deviate from the user’s identity in
ways the planner could not anticipate, because πϕ commits to s1 before observing how G instantiates
it. Personalization cues from Hu can thus be lost or distorted at render time. To further align PEARL
with the user’s identity, we introduce a reflector that conditions on the rendered image I1 as additional
evidence and revises the scene description accordingly. Let πψ be the reflector. Given (Hu, I1), πψ
autoregressively emits an interleaved output (r2, s2) = πψ(· | Hu, I1) consisting of a structured
analysis r2 followed by a revised scene description s2, where r2 compares I1 against Hu along
5


Preprint
Figure 2: Training procedure of the PEARL framework. We warm start with the Silver Personalization
Trajectory, and optimize both policies with the Render-in-the-Loop optimization.
concrete personalization axes, identifying mismatches such as scene incongruities, missing lifestyle
cues, or aesthetic deviations from the user’s established style, and s2 is a self-contained text prompt
formatted identically to s1. We then generate the final image ˆI,
ˆI = G(s2, c)
(3)
3.3
TRAINING
We train PEARL in two stages. In the first stage, we initialize πϕ and πψ via supervised fine-tuning
on silver personalization trajectories distilled from a teacher multimodal model with access to the
target image. In the second stage, we jointly refine both policies via render-in-the-loop preference
optimization, where each policy is scored by the full downstream pipeline that includes the other
policy. We describe each stage in detail below. The training pseudocode is provided in Appendix C.
Stage 1: Silver Personalization Trajectory Distillation.
We construct silver supervision for both
policies by prompting a teacher multi-modal model with a ground-truth identity signal I⋆
u alongside
the user history Hu. Concretely, I⋆
u may be a held-out image consistent with the user’s identity or
a structured set of identity elements extracted from Hu, depending on the task specification. For
the planner, the teacher receives (Hu, c, I⋆
u) and produces a silver trajectory (r⋆
1, s⋆
1) that a student
conditioned on (Hu, c) alone could plausibly reproduce. For the reflector, we render s⋆
1 through G
to obtain a pseudo-initial image ˜I1, then prompt the teacher with (Hu, ˜I1, I⋆
u) to produce a silver
trajectory (r⋆
2, s⋆
2) describing how ˜I1 should be corrected. The two policies are then independently
fine-tuned on their respective silver trajectories via standard cross-entropy:
LSFT(πϕ) = −E(Hu,c)[log πϕ(r⋆
1, s⋆
1 | Hu, c)] ,
LSFT(πψ) = −E(Hu,˜I1)
h
log πψ(r⋆
2, s⋆
2 | Hu, ˜I1, c)
i
.
Stage 2: Render-in-the-Loop Preference Optimization.
The supervised warm start trains each
policy independently, but at inference the two policies compose: πϕ’s output is consumed by πψ
and G, and πψ’s output depends on what πϕ produced. We address this by alternating between
updating πϕ and πψ via Direct Preference Optimization (Rafailov et al., 2024), with the other
policy and the renderer held frozen at each step, and with each candidate scored by the actual
downstream generation. Concretely, for the planner update, we sample K candidate planner outputs
{(r(k)
1 , s(k)
1 )}K
k=1 ∼πϕ(· | Hu, c), run the full downstream pipeline πψ ◦G on each to obtain a
final image ˆI(k), and score it with a task-aligned retrieval reward R(ˆI(k), Hu) (defined in Section 4)
that measures how well the image fits the user. We form preference pairs from the highest- and
lowest-scoring candidates, (rw
1 , sw
1 ) ≻(rl
1, sl
1), and update πϕ with the standard DPO objective:
LDPO(πϕ) = −E
"
log σ
 
β log πϕ(rw
1 , sw
1 | Hu, c)
πref
ϕ (rw
1 , sw
1 | Hu, c) −β log πϕ(rl
1, sl
1 | Hu, c)
πref
ϕ (rl
1, sl
1 | Hu, c)
!#
,
(4)
where πref
ϕ is the warm-started checkpoint and β is the DPO temperature. The reflector update reuses
Equation 4 with πϕ taken to be πψ and the conditioning context (Hu, c) taken to be (Hu, I1), where
I1 = G(s1, c) is the initial rendering produced by the frozen planner; preference pairs are formed by
sampling K candidate continuations from πψ(· | Hu, I1), rendering each s2 through G to obtain ˆI,
and ranking under R.
6


Preprint
We perform one planner update followed by one reflector update; while alternating for additional
rounds is straightforward and we expect it to yield further gains, we leave a systematic study of
multi-round optimization to future work. Even with a single round, because each policy is scored by
the full downstream pipeline that includes the other policy, every update step optimizes against the
exact composition encountered at inference rather than against a fixed teacher signal.
4
EXPERIMENTS
We conduct extensive experiments to investigate how existing personalization methods perform on
PMH-IG and the effectiveness of the proposed PEARL. We will first introduce the baseline and
experiment set-up. Then we will report the experiment results and analysis.
4.1
BASELINES
We compare against two prior history-based personalization methods and two pure Multimodal Large
Language Models (MLLM) baselines.
• PMG (Shen et al., 2024): SDXL conditioned on LLM-extracted style keywords from user history.
• Pigeon (Xu et al., 2025): a recent MLLM-based personalization baseline that applies a learned
masking on the user history before conditioning.
• LLaVA (Liu et al., 2023): an MLLM designed to extract dense image features for visual reasoning,
generating text by default but producing images with an external text-to-image generator.
• LaVIT (Jin et al., 2024): an MLLM that converts images into discrete visual tokens for reasoning
and generates visual tokens to guide the image generation. We use it out-of-the-box with no
additional training; visual tokens and a category string are decoded by its native SDXL head.
We note that all four baselines are paired with SDXL as the frozen text-to-image generator, matching
the renderer used by PEARL, for fair comparison.
4.2
EXPERIMENT SETTINGS
Models.
The planner πϕ and reflector πψ are both initialized from Qwen2.5-VL-7B. The frozen
renderer G is SDXL-1.0 with resolution <1024 × 1024>. Stage 1 silver trajectories are produced by a
Gemini2.5-Flash teacher with privileged access to the identity anchor I⋆
u, which is the held out target
image for Personalized Scene Generation and the held out post for Personalized Creative Generation.
Training.
For both stage 1 and 2, we finetune πϕ and πψ using LoRA adapters (Hu et al., 2021).
For stage 2, we sample K = 4 candidate trajectories from the warm-started policy with sampling
temperature 0.9. For Personalized Scene Generation, we instantiate the reward as a weighted
composite of recommendation rank (reciprocal rank of the target product among distractors under a
CLIP recommender), identity element coverage in the rendered scene, and a Qwen2.5-VL pointwise
judgment. For Personalized Creative Generation, we instantiate the reward as a weighted composite
of CLIP and DINO similarities to the user’s held-out post. All experiments run on a single 4090 GPU.
Table 1: Main results on Personalized Scene Generation for e-commerce setting on Amazon.
(Bold marks the best per column; underline marks second-best.)
Retrieval
Image Quality
MLLM Judge (1–5)
Method
H@5 ↑
MRR ↑
Aes ↑
Cont. ↑
Overall ↑
Sty. ↑
PMG (Shen et al., 2024)
0.2143
0.1535
5.11
3.58
3.48
2.48
Pigeon (Xu et al., 2025)
0.0985
0.0834
4.60
4.32
1.79
1.98
LaVIT (Jin et al., 2024)
0.2162
0.1441
4.38
3.94
2.92
2.37
LLaVA (Liu et al., 2023)
0.1873
0.1367
5.17
4.32
2.89
2.30
PEARL (ours)
0.2297
0.1639
5.33
4.36
3.92
2.88
4.3
QUANTITATIVE RESULTS
Personalized Scene Generation.
Table 1 reports results on Personalized Scene Generation (E-
commerce Product Presentation), where PEARL outperforms baselines on all metrics. The largest
7


Preprint
Table 2: Main results on Personalized Creative Generation for social media setting on Instagram.
(Bold marks the best per column; underline marks second-best.)
Target-based Image Metrics
Contrastive R@1
MLLM Judge (1–5)
Method
CIS ↑DIS ↑LPIPS ↓MS-SSIM ↑Aes. ↑Inter-cat. ↑Intra-cat. ↑Sty. ↑Cont. ↑Overall ↑
PMG
(Shen et al., 2024) 0.601 0.206
0.729
0.047
5.84
0.597
0.466
3.167
3.075
3.157
Pigeon
(Xu et al., 2025)
0.561 0.256
0.741
0.053
4.28
0.748
0.659
3.341
3.258
3.334
LaVIT
(Jin et al., 2024)
0.616 0.238
0.744
0.068
5.37
0.640
0.395
3.344
3.143
3.331
LLaVA
(Liu et al., 2023)
0.575 0.171
0.735
0.053
5.48
0.432
0.285
3.256
3.179
3.227
PEARL (ours)
0.645 0.289
0.735
0.055
5.45
0.876
0.701
3.554
3.277
3.541
margins appear on the personalization-facing metrics such as H@5 and MRR, demonstrating the
effective personalization of the proposed framework. Although all baselines share the same image
generation backbone, gains in image quality reflect that PEARL produces superior scene reasoning
grounded in the user’s history. Additionally, the superior performance on the MLLM-based metrics
corroborates the gains observed in the personalization and quality metrics, as MLLM judges aggregate
style, content, and overall fit into a holistic assessment whose nuance no automatic metric can capture.
Personalized Creative Generation.
Table 2 reports results on Personalized Creative Generation
(Social Media Content Posting), where PEARL is best on 7 of 10 columns, including all retrieval and
MLLM judge metrics. On target-based image metrics, PEARL is strictly best on CIS and DIS, and
competitive on the remaining two; notably, the methods that win LPIPS or MS-SSIM score poorly on
retrieval, illustrating the value of multi-axis evaluation: a single fidelity metric can be won without
delivering personalization. Additionally, the superior performance on the MLLM-based metrics
corroborates the gains observed in the personalization and quality metrics.
4.4
HUMAN EVALUATION
We complement automatic evaluation with the initial SDXL human study, in which one annotator
assessed 50 distinct test users: 25 scene-generation pairs against PMG and 25 creative-generation
pairs against Pigeon. Method names were hidden, case order was randomized, and left/right placement
was balanced within each task. For fit to the displayed user history, the annotator selected PEARL
in 19/25 scene pairs (76%) and PMG in 4/25 (16%), with insufficient evidence in two cases. For
creative generation, PEARL was selected in 16/25 pairs (64%) and Pigeon in 9/25 (36%). These
are preliminary, single-annotator judgments of history fit, not the target users’ own preferences.
Appendix D.6 provides the sampling protocol, all response categories, and conditioning limitations.
4.5
QUALITATIVE RESULTS
We include the qualitative results in Figure 3. In Figure 3a, Compared to the baselines, PEARL
successfully captures the user identity from the user history, which entails a weekend DIY enthusiast
with a working table. LaVIT and Pigeon, whose personalization requires conditioned generation on
the embeddings, fails to preserve the product detail and generate meaningful images from the user
history. Figure 3b shares the same story where PEARL captures the details of the user aesthetic, where
the food is often presented in clean, light-colored kitchenware with a hand offering gesture. Together,
these examples illustrate how PEARL translates user history into concrete choices about scene context,
composition, and visual presentation. We present more qualitative results in Appendix E.2.
4.6
ABLATION STUDIES
We further investigate the effectiveness of the reflector module by comparing the full PEARL against
PEARL-Reflection, an ablation in which we replace the alternating-policy DPO stage with super-
vised fine-tuning alone. We present the results in Figure 4. Across both PMH-IG tasks and the
MLLM judge, PEARL outperforms PEARL-Reflection on four of the five aggregated dimensions,
demonstrating that closing the loop between reasoning and rendering through preference optimiza-
tion yields measurable gains over supervised distillation alone. We note, however, that the largest
8


Preprint
(a) Personalized Scene Generation.
(b) Personalized Creative Generation.
Figure 3: Qualitative Results.
Figure 4: Ablation: PEARL vs. PEARL-Reflection. The visualization normalizes and aggregates the
metrics across both tasks.
improvements appear on the MLLM judge metrics, particularly style and content, suggesting that
the reflector primarily contributes by aligning fine-grained details that surface-level retrieval and
image-quality metrics do not fully capture. The marginal drop on overall score (under 1%) suggests
that the gains from the reflector concentrate on fine-grained personalization details rather than on
drastic adjustments. This is consistent with the findings of IRG (Huang et al., 2025), which similarly
observed that interleaved reasoning yields its largest gains on fine-grained fidelity rather than on
coarse semantic alignment. The detailed per-metric results are provided in Appendix E.1.
5
RELATED WORK
Conditional Personalized Image Generation.
Conditional personalized image generation (Wei
et al., 2025) synthesizes images incorporating a user-specified visual concept under a novel text
prompt, given a small set of reference images depicting it. Existing methods fall into two families.
Test-time optimization methods such as DreamBooth (Ruiz et al., 2023) and Textual Inversion (Yang
et al., 2023) fine-tune the generator or learn a dedicated text embedding to bind the reference concept,
achieving strong subject fidelity but requiring per-user training. Adapter-based methods such as
IP-Adapter (Ye et al., 2023) amortize this cost by encoding reference images directly into the cross-
attention conditioning of a frozen generator. In both families, “personalization” means faithfully
reproducing a pre-specified visual concept. Our work instead infers a user’s identity from realistic
histories and synthesizes scenes that reflect it.
History-Based Personalized Image Generation.
Recent work conditions generation on a user’s
accumulated interaction history rather than curated reference images. Pigeon (Xu et al., 2025) uses
a large multimodal model with dedicated masking and aggregation modules to encode noisy user
histories alongside multimodal instructions, and is evaluated on personalized sticker and movie
poster generation. PMG (Shen et al., 2024) instead translates history images into textual descriptions
and uses a large language model to encode user preferences from this textual proxy, trading visual
fidelity for the flexibility of language-based reasoning. Personalized Image Editing (Dunlop et al.,
2025) takes an editing approach, using Collaborative DPO over a learned preference graph to share
9


Preprint
aesthetic signals across users with similar tastes. Although these methods establish user history as a
useful conditioning signal, they fuse it directly into the generator without explicit reasoning over its
implications for the target image. PEARL instead reasons explicitly over multimodal user histories.
6
CONCLUSION
We introduced PMH-IG, the first benchmark for personalized image generation grounded in realistic,
multimodal user histories from public review and posting platforms, and PEARL, a reasoning-
interleaved framework that decomposes the problem into identity reasoning over the user’s history
and conditioned synthesis through a frozen image generator. PEARL optimizes its render-then-reflect
loop through a two-stage procedure that combines silver-trajectory supervision with alternating
preference optimization. Across both tasks on PMH-IG, PEARL substantially outperforms strong
personalization baselines on image quality, retrieval-based personalization, and MLLM-judge metrics,
and ablations confirm that both reasoning and reflection contribute measurable gains.
7
AI USE DISCLOSURE
In this work, we used generative AI tools for brainstorming research idea, implementing part of the
codebase, and do preliminary analysis on the experiment result. We have not used generative AI
tools for autoresearch, propose hypothesis, or provide feedback on methodology, and the rest of the
required disclosure tasks are not applicable to this work. Additionally, we used generative AI tools
for draft part of the research paper, create or modify the teaser figure and images, and summarize
existing landscape in the research area that is within our interests. We have reviewed all AI-assisted
work. We checked LLM-generated research ideas for potential plagiarism through a manual literature
survey, and audited the claims and code written by LLMs. We take responsibility for the final content
of this work, including text, claims or artifacts produced with the aid of generative AI.
REFERENCES
Fernando Amat, Ashok Chandrashekar, Tony Jebara, and Justin Basilico. Artwork personalization at
netflix. In Proceedings of the 12th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems, RecSys ’18, pp. 487–
488, New York, NY, USA, 2018. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450359016.
doi: 10.1145/3240323.3241729. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3240323.3241729.
Steven Au, Cameron J. Dimacali, Ojasmitha Pedirappagari, Namyong Park, Franck Dernoncourt,
Yu Wang, Nikos Kanakaris, Hanieh Deilamsalehy, Ryan A. Rossi, and Nesreen K. Ahmed.
Personalized graph-based retrieval for large language models, 2025. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2501.02157.
Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Shusheng Yang, Shijie Wang, Sinan Tan, Peng Wang, Junyang Lin, Chang Zhou,
and Jingren Zhou. Qwen-vl: A versatile vision-language model for understanding, localization,
text reading, and beyond, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12966.
Paul N. Bennett, Ryen W. White, Wei Chu, Susan T. Dumais, Peter Bailey, Fedor Borisyuk, and
Xiaoyuan Cui. Modeling the impact of short- and long-term behavior on search personalization.
In Proceedings of the 35th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development
in Information Retrieval, SIGIR ’12, pp. 185–194, New York, NY, USA, 2012. Association
for Computing Machinery.
ISBN 9781450314725.
doi: 10.1145/2348283.2348312.
URL
https://doi.org/10.1145/2348283.2348312.
Gheorghe Comanici and et al.
Gemini 2.5: Pushing the frontier with advanced reasoning,
multimodality, long context, and next generation agentic capabilities, 2025.
URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2507.06261.
Ádám Tibor Czapp, Mátyás Jani, Bálint Domián, and Balázs Hidasi. Dynamic product image
generation and recommendation at scale for personalized e-commerce. In 18th ACM Conference
on Recommender Systems, RecSys ’24, pp. 768–770. ACM, October 2024. doi: 10.1145/3640457.
3688045. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3640457.3688045.
10


Preprint
Connor Dunlop, Matthew Zheng, Kavana Venkatesh, and Pinar Yanardag. Personalized image editing
in text-to-image diffusion models via collaborative direct preference optimization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2511.05616, 2025.
Xiangnan He, Lizi Liao, Hanwang Zhang, Liqiang Nie, Xia Hu, and Tat-Seng Chua. Neural
collaborative filtering. In Proceedings of the 26th International Conference on World Wide Web
(WWW), pp. 173–182. International World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee, 2017. doi:
10.1145/3038912.3052569.
Yupeng Hou, Jiacheng Li, Zhankui He, An Yan, Xiusi Chen, and Julian McAuley. Bridging language
and items for retrieval and recommendation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.03952, 2024.
Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang,
and Weizhu Chen. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models, 2021. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685.
Wenxuan Huang, Shuang Chen, Zheyong Xie, Shaosheng Cao, Shixiang Tang, Yufan Shen, Qingyu
Yin, Wenbo Hu, Xiaoman Wang, Yuntian Tang, Junbo Qiao, Yue Guo, Yao Hu, Zhenfei Yin, Philip
Torr, Yu Cheng, Wanli Ouyang, and Shaohui Lin. Interleaving reasoning for better text-to-image
generation, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.06945.
Yang Jin, Kun Xu, Kun Xu, Liwei Chen, Chao Liao, Jianchao Tan, Quzhe Huang, Bin Chen, Chenyi
Lei, An Liu, Chengru Song, Xiaoqiang Lei, Di Zhang, Wenwu Ou, Kun Gai, and Yadong Mu.
Unified language-vision pretraining in llm with dynamic discrete visual tokenization, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.04669.
Seungbae Kim, Jyun-Yu Jiang, Masaki Nakada, Jinyoung Han, and Wei Wang. Multimodal post
attentive profiling for influencer marketing. In Proceedings of The Web Conference 2020, pp.
2878–2884, 2020.
Yehuda Koren, Robert Bell, and Chris Volinsky. Matrix factorization techniques for recommender
systems. Computer, 42(8):30–37, 2009. doi: 10.1109/MC.2009.263.
Ishita Kumar, Snigdha Viswanathan, Sushrita Yerra, Alireza Salemi, Ryan A. Rossi, Franck Der-
noncourt, Hanieh Deilamsalehy, Xiang Chen, Ruiyi Zhang, Shubham Agarwal, Nedim Lipka,
Chien Van Nguyen, Thien Huu Nguyen, and Hamed Zamani. Longlamp: A benchmark for person-
alized long-form text generation, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.11016.
Xinyu Li, Ruiyang Zhou, Zachary C. Lipton, and Liu Leqi. Personalized language modeling from
personalized human feedback, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05133.
Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. Visual instruction tuning, 2023. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.08485.
Anders Giovanni Møller, Daniel M. Romero, David Jurgens, and Luca Maria Aiello. The impact
of generative AI on social media: an experimental study. Scientific Reports, 16:9376, 2026. doi:
10.1038/s41598-026-40110-8.
Maxim Naumov, Dheevatsa Mudigere, Hao-Jun Michael Shi, Jianyu Huang, Narayanan Sundaraman,
Jongsoo Park, Xiaodong Wang, Udit Gupta, Carole-Jean Wu, Alisson G. Azzolini, Dmytro
Dzhulgakov, Andrey Mallevich, Ilia Cherniavskii, Yinghai Lu, Raghuraman Krishnamoorthi,
Ansha Yu, Volodymyr Kondratenko, Stephanie Pereira, Xianjie Chen, Wenlin Chen, Vijay Rao,
Bill Jia, Liang Xiong, and Mikhail Smelyanskiy. Deep learning recommendation model for
personalization and recommendation systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.00091, 2019.
Bo Ni, Branislav Kveton, Samyadeep Basu, Subhojyoti Mukherjee, Leyao Wang, Franck Dernoncourt,
Sungchul Kim, Seunghyun Yoon, Zichao Wang, Ruiyi Zhang, Puneet Mathur, Jihyung Kil, Jiuxiang
Gu, Nedim Lipka, Yu Wang, Ryan A. Rossi, and Tyler Derr. Reasoning-based personalized
generation for users with sparse data, 2026. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.21219.
Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Stefano Ermon, Christopher D. Manning, and Chelsea
Finn. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18290.
11


Preprint
Nataniel Ruiz, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani, Yael Pritch, Michael Rubinstein, and Kfir Aberman.
Dreambooth: Fine tuning text-to-image diffusion models for subject-driven generation, 2023. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.12242.
Alireza Salemi, Sheshera Mysore, Michael Bendersky, and Hamed Zamani. Lamp: When large lan-
guage models meet personalization, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.11406.
Silvia Schiaffino and Analía Amandi. User – interface agent interaction: personalization issues.
International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 60(1):129–148, 2004. ISSN 1071-5819. doi:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhcs.2003.09.003. URL https://www.sciencedirect.com/
science/article/pii/S1071581903001666.
Christoph Schuhmann, Romain Beaumont, Richard Vencu, Cade Gordon, Ross Wightman, Mehdi
Cherti, Theo Coombes, Aarush Katta, Clayton Mullis, Mitchell Wortsman, Patrick Schramowski,
Srivatsa Kundurthy, Katherine Crowson, Ludwig Schmidt, Robert Kaczmarczyk, and Jenia Jitsev.
Laion-5b: An open large-scale dataset for training next generation image-text models, 2022. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.08402.
Xiaoteng Shen, Rui Zhang, Xiaoyan Zhao, Jieming Zhu, and Xi Xiao. Pmg : Personalized multi-
modal generation with large language models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.
08677.
Jaime Teevan, Susan T. Dumais, and Eric Horvitz. Personalizing search via automated analysis of
interests and activities. In Proceedings of the 28th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on
Research and Development in Information Retrieval, SIGIR ’05, pp. 449–456, New York, NY, USA,
2005. Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 1595930345. doi: 10.1145/1076034.1076111.
URL https://doi.org/10.1145/1076034.1076111.
Yuxiang Wei, Yiheng Zheng, Yabo Zhang, Ming Liu, Zhilong Ji, Lei Zhang, and Wangmeng Zuo.
Personalized image generation with deep generative models: A decade survey, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13081.
Yiyan Xu, Wenjie Wang, Yang Zhang, Biao Tang, Peng Yan, Fuli Feng, and Xiangnan He. Per-
sonalized image generation with large multimodal models. In Proceedings of the ACM on Web
Conference 2025, pp. 264–274, 2025.
Jianan Yang, Haobo Wang, Yanming Zhang, Ruixuan Xiao, Sai Wu, Gang Chen, and Junbo Zhao.
Controllable textual inversion for personalized text-to-image generation, 2023. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2304.05265.
Hu Ye, Jun Zhang, Sibo Liu, Xiao Han, and Wei Yang. Ip-adapter: Text compatible image prompt
adapter for text-to-image diffusion models, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.
06721.
Zhehao Zhang, Ryan A. Rossi, Branislav Kveton, Yijia Shao, Diyi Yang, Hamed Zamani, Franck
Dernoncourt, Joe Barrow, Tong Yu, Sungchul Kim, Ruiyi Zhang, Jiuxiang Gu, Tyler Derr, Hongjie
Chen, Junda Wu, Xiang Chen, Zichao Wang, Subrata Mitra, Nedim Lipka, Nesreen Ahmed, and
Yu Wang. Personalization of large language models: A survey, 2025. URL https://arxiv.
org/abs/2411.00027.
12


Preprint
A
LIMITATIONS
Our work has two main limitations. First, Personalized Scene Generation has no naturally occurring
ground-truth scene image per (user, product) pair, so we evaluate user alignment indirectly through
retrieval-based and judge-based metrics rather than direct reference-based comparison. Second, our
PEARL training procedure performs only a single round of alternating-policy DPO updates between
the planner and the reflector; while we expect additional rounds to yield further gains, a systematic
study of multi-round optimization remains future work.
B
PMH-IG
In this section, we provide additional details on the two task instantiations in our personalized image
generation benchmark: Personalized Scene Generation for e-commerce product presentation and
Personalized Creative Generation for social media content posting. While the main paper defines
the common problem formulation, here we describe the task motivations, source corpora, filtering
procedures, target construction, and user-level splits used to construct each dataset.
The two tasks are designed to evaluate complementary forms of user-history-based personalization.
Personalized Scene Generation focuses on adapting the visual context around a product to an
individual user’s inferred interests and lifestyle, motivated by industrial settings in which platforms
or sellers may personalize product imagery to increase engagement, clicks, and purchase intent.
Personalized Creative Generation focuses on extending a user’s visual identity to new content,
motivated by creator-support workflows in which tools help influencers decide what to post and how
to present it while preserving their long-standing style.
In both tasks, the generation condition specifies the content to be rendered, while the user history
provides the personalization signal. For scene generation, the condition is the product image to be
personalized; for creative generation, the condition is a topic or content specification. This separation
allows us to evaluate whether models can go beyond generic conditional generation by adapting the
output to user-specific behavioral or aesthetic patterns inferred from history.
Table 3 summarizes the resulting dataset statistics across tasks and splits. We next describe the
construction of each task in detail, beginning with the e-commerce scene-generation setting and then
turning to the social media creative-generation setting.
Table 3: Dataset statistics.
Personalized Scene Generation
(E-commerce: Amazon)
Personalized Creative Generation
(Social Media: Instagram)
Split
#Users
#Reviews
#Users
#Posts
#Pairs
Train
3,972
39,720
3,464
40K
957
Val
510
5,100
742
8K
—
Test
518
5,180
207
2K
314
Total
5,000
50,000
4,413
50,656
1,271
B.1
PERSONALIZED SCENE GENERATION: E-COMMERCE PRODUCT PRESENTATION
Motivation.
This task is motivated by the practical goal of improving user engagement in e-
commerce through personalized product imagery. Prior work has shown that users tend to respond
more favorably to personalized images, for example through higher click-through rates, although the
little work that does exist in the literature has primarily studied this at a coarse category or segment
level. Here, we formulate a more fine-grained benchmark from the perspective of a platform such
as Amazon, or a seller operating on such a platform, where the objective is to generate product
images tailored to an individual user’s inferred interests and lifestyle. The product itself should
remain faithful, but the surrounding visual context should be adapted so that it is more likely to attract
attention, encourage clicks, and ultimately increase purchase intent. In this sense, the task serves as
13


Preprint
an offline benchmark for personalized product presentation and generative recommendation at the
user level.
Source corpus.
We build the Personalized Scene Generation dataset on top of the Amazon Reviews
2023 corpus (Hou et al., 2024), which spans 33 product categories with timestamped review text,
ratings, product metadata, and user-uploaded review images. We restrict our pool to six categories
that exhibit strong lifestyle signal (Sports & Outdoors, Home & Kitchen, Tools & Home Improvement,
Automotive, Pet Supplies, and Electronics); these categories together cover the principal axes of
consumer behavior we want the dataset to probe.
User filtering.
A history is informative only if it contains enough textual signal to support identity
inference. We adopt the LongLaMP (Kumar et al., 2024) density filter: a user is retained only if they
have at least four reviews of length at least 120 words. To further ensure each history is non-trivially
diverse, we additionally require that a user’s reviews span at least three of the six categories, which
filters out users whose interests are too narrow to test cross-category lifestyle inference. We strip
HTML tags, deduplicate reviews by hash, and discard reviews flagged as non-English by fastText
language identification.
Target construction.
For each user, we hold out one review (uniformly at random from those
satisfying the density filter) as the generation target. The remaining reviews form the user’s history
Hu, and the held-out review’s product image becomes the the generation condition c = o⋆. Drawing
target products from each user’s own history (rather than synthetically pairing arbitrary products with
arbitrary users) preserves the natural user-product affinity present in real e-commerce: the model is
asked to render a product the user has actually engaged with, not an out-of-distribution match.
Splits.
We partition users into train / validation / test splits of approximately 80 : 10 : 10. Splits are
user-disjoint, meaning a user’s reviews appear in only one split, so generalization to unseen users is
tested directly.
B.2
PERSONALIZED CREATIVE GENERATION: SOCIAL MEDIA CONTENT POSTING
Motivation.
This task is motivated by the need for tools that help creators plan content while
maintaining a consistent visual identity. Influencers often rely on consultants to advise what to
post, when to post it, and how to present it so that new content aligns with their long-standing
style. However, a creator’s style is not always reducible to explicit promptable attributes such as
“minimalist,” “bright,” or “vintage.” Many stylistic cues are implicit, habitual, or even subconscious,
such as repeatedly photographing food from a top-down angle, placing products near natural light,
centering pets in domestic spaces, using muted backgrounds with a single saturated object, favoring
close-up hand-held compositions, or pairing travel scenes with wide negative space. We formulate
Personalized Creative Generation as a benchmark for inferring these latent aesthetic regularities
from the user’s visual history and applying them to a new topic. The goal is not to inject a few
user-provided style keywords into a generic image generator, but to generate content that could
plausibly fit into the user’s existing feed while depicting the requested topic.
Source corpus.
We build the Personalized Creative Generation dataset on top of the Instagram
Influencer Dataset (Kim et al., 2020), a publicly released collection of 33,935 influencers covering
nine topical categories (beauty, family, fashion, fitness, food, interior, pet, travel, other). For each
influencer the dataset provides up to 300 chronologically ordered posts, each consisting of one image,
a free-text caption, hashtags, user-tags, a timestamp, and engagement metadata (likes, comments).
We restrict our pool to five lifestyle-rich categories (food, interior, pet, travel, other) for the held-out
evaluation, as these categories carry the strongest visual style signal and the smallest overlap with
celebrity / promotional content present in fashion, beauty, and family. The training and validation
pools retain all nine categories so the reasoning model is exposed to a broader stylistic distribution
during learning.
User filtering.
A history is informative only if it spans enough chronologically distinct posts to
expose a stable visual identity. We retain a user only if they have at least four posts on record, drop
posts marked as videos, and drop posts whose stored image cannot be loaded (corrupted or removed).
We discard users whose posts are dominated by sponsored content (is_ad=True for more than
half their posts) to avoid fitting commercial templates rather than personal style. Finally, posts are
14


Preprint
Algorithm 1 PEARL Framework
Require: User history Hu = {h(u)
i
}Nu
i=1, generation condition c, frozen text-to-image generator G, trained
planner πϕ, trained reflector πψ
Ensure: Personalized image ˆI
Stage 1: Planning
▷Section 3.1
1: Construct planner prompt from Hu and c
2: Sample reasoning trace: r1 ∼πϕ(· | Hu, c)
▷Summarize user lifestyle, aesthetics, behavioral patterns
3: Sample scene description: s1 ∼πϕ(· | Hu, c, r1)
▷Self-contained prompt for G
Initial Rendering
4: I1 ←G(s1, c)
▷Render planner output via frozen generator
Stage 2: Reflection
▷Section 3.2
5: Construct reflector prompt from Hu, I1, and c
6: Sample structured analysis: r2 ∼πψ(· | Hu, I1, c)
▷Compare I1 against Hu: scene consistency, lifestyle cues, aesthetic alignment
7: Sample revised scene description: s2 ∼πψ(· | Hu, I1, c, r2)
▷Corrected prompt for G
Final Rendering
▷Eq. 3
8: ˆI ←G(s2, c)
▷Re-render with refined plan
9: return ˆI, (r1, s1), (r2, s2)
deduplicated by image hash to remove the cross-posted duplicates that are common among influencer
accounts.
Target construction.
For each user, we sort posts chronologically by timestamp. The two most
recent posts are held out as generation targets, and the preceding five posts are used as the visual
history Hu presented to the reasoning model. This temporal split mirrors real social media, where a
creator’s next post must be predicted from past activity rather than from a randomly held-out window.
Splits.
We partition users into train / validation / test splits of approximately 70 : 15 : 15 at the user
level, so a user’s posts appear in only one split and generalization to unseen users is tested directly.
The resulting corpus contains 3,464 training users (∼40K posts), 742 validation users (∼8K posts),
and 207 test users (∼2K posts), with the test split restricted to the five lifestyle categories above.
After applying the chronological history window we obtain 957 training (user, target) pairs and 314
test (user, target) pairs used in all reported experiments.
C
PEARL ALGORITHMS
We provide pseudocode for the full PEARL pipeline at inference time and for the two-stage training
procedure in Algorithms 1 and 2, respectively. The training algorithm formalizes the two-stage
procedure described in Section 3.3: Stage 1 distills silver trajectories from a teacher model with
privileged access to an identity signal I⋆
u, fine-tuning the planner and reflector independently via
cross-entropy on the resulting trajectories; Stage 2 alternates between updating the two policies via
Direct Preference Optimization, where each policy’s candidate outputs are scored by running them
through the full downstream pipeline (including the other, frozen policy and the renderer) and ranked
by a task-aligned retrieval reward R.
D
EVALUATION PROTOCOL DETAILS
This appendix expands on the metrics summarized in Section 2.5, providing precise definitions,
construction details, and prompts.
15


Preprint
Algorithm 2 PEARL Training
Require: Training set D = {(Hu, c, I⋆
u)}, frozen generator G, teacher model T , retrieval reward R,
number of candidates K, DPO temperature β
Ensure: Trained planner πϕ, trained reflector πψ
Stage 1: Silver Trajectory Distillation
▷Section 3.3
1: for each (Hu, c, I⋆
u) ∈D do
2:
(r⋆
1, s⋆
1) ∼T (· | Hu, c, I⋆
u)
▷Silver planner trajectory
3:
˜I1 ←G(s⋆
1, c)
▷Render pseudo-initial image
4:
(r⋆
2, s⋆
2) ∼T (· | Hu, ˜I1, c, I⋆
u)
▷Silver reflector trajectory
5: end for
6: πϕ ←arg minϕ LSFT(πϕ)
▷Fine-tune planner
7: πψ ←arg minψ LSFT(πψ)
▷Fine-tune reflector
8: πref
ϕ ←πϕ,
πref
ψ ←πψ
▷Store reference policies for DPO
Stage 2: Render-in-the-Loop Preference Optimization
Planner Update
▷Reflector πψ and G frozen
9: for each (Hu, c) ∈D do
10:
for k = 1, . . . , K do
11:
(r(k)
1 , s(k)
1 ) ∼πϕ(· | Hu, c)
▷Sample planner candidate
12:
I(k)
1
←G(s(k)
1 , c)
▷Render initial image
13:
(r(k)
2 , s(k)
2 ) ∼πψ(· | Hu, I(k)
1 , c)
▷Run frozen reflector
14:
ˆI(k) ←G(s(k)
2 , c)
▷Render final image
15:
α(k) ←R(ˆI(k), Hu)
▷Score via retrieval reward
16:
end for
17:
(rw
1 , sw
1 ) ≻(rl
1, sl
1) from arg maxk α(k) and arg mink α(k)
▷Form preference pair
18: end for
19: πϕ ←πϕ −η∇ϕ LDPO(πϕ)
▷Update planner (Eq. 4)
Reflector Update
▷Planner πϕ and G frozen
20: for each (Hu, c) ∈D do
21:
(r1, s1) ∼πϕ(· | Hu, c);
I1 ←G(s1, c)
▷Generate input from frozen planner
22:
for j = 1, . . . , K do
23:
(r(j)
2 , s(j)
2 ) ∼πψ(· | Hu, I1, c)
▷Sample reflector candidate
24:
ˆI(j) ←G(s(j)
2 , c)
▷Render refined image
25:
γ(j) ←R(ˆI(j), Hu)
▷Score via retrieval reward
26:
end for
27:
(rw
2 , sw
2 ) ≻(rl
2, sl
2) from arg maxj γ(j) and arg minj γ(j)
▷Form preference pair
28: end for
29: πψ ←πψ −η∇ψ LDPO(πψ)
▷Update reflector (Eq. 4)
30: return πϕ, πψ
D.1
CONTRASTIVE RETRIEVAL PROBES: SHARED SETUP
Both PMH-IG tasks include a contrastive retrieval probe that scores how well a generated image
places its user in their natural retrieval pool. The probes share the following protocol; we describe the
task-specific user encoders and pool constructions in Sections D.2 and D.3.
Probe formulation.
A learned compatibility scorer s(u, I) assigns a score to each (user, image)
pair. The scorer is trained on real (history, target) pairs from the training split with InfoNCE over
in-batch negatives, then frozen for evaluation. At evaluation we substitute the real target with the
variant’s generated image ˆIu and measure the resulting rank against a deterministic distractor pool
16


Preprint
(seeded by hash(u), identical across methods). Generated images never enter the training distribution,
so there is no circularity in using the probe to evaluate generations.
Visual encoding.
For both probes, images are encoded with frozen CLIP ViT-L/14 (OpenAI
weights) into a 768-d feature, then projected through a learned MLP head (768 →512 →256 with
GELU, LayerNorm, and dropout 0.1) and ℓ2-normalized. Compatibility is a temperature-scaled
cosine, s(u, I) = τ −1⟨u, eI⟩, with τ a learned scalar.
Metrics.
Given the rank r(ˆIu) of the true target (or correct user) among the candidates,
Hit@K = 1
|U|
X
u
1[r(ˆIu) ≤K],
MRR = 1
|U|
X
u
1
r(ˆIu)
.
D.2
RECOMMENDATION PROBE FOR PERSONALIZED SCENE GENERATION
The recommendation intuition is that a personalized image should make a target product more
discoverable to the user it was generated for than a generic catalog photo would. The user encoder is
bimodal because Amazon histories carry both behavioral (purchase) and intent (review-text) signals.
Bimodal user encoder.
Each user’s history consists of H=9 items, each pairing a catalog photo
and the corresponding review text. The visual stream uses the shared CLIP encoder of Section D.1;
the textual stream encodes each review (truncated to 2,000 characters) with sentence-transformers
all-mpnet-base-v2 into a 768-d feature ti. Per-item bimodal features are concatenated and
projected to a per-item embedding ei = MLP([vi; ti]) ∈R256, then masked-attention-pooled into
the user embedding u ∈R256. Including review text disambiguates lifestyle signals that purchase
photos alone cannot convey (e.g., a user who buys both hiking boots and dress shoes; the reviews
disambiguate which is the recurring theme).
Training.
Trained on the 4,000 training-split users with batch size 128, AdamW (lr 1×10−3, weight
decay 1×10−4), feature dropout 0.1 (random history-item drop), and 30 epochs with early stopping
on validation Hit@1.
Distractor pool and ranking.
For each test user with target product p⋆, the candidate set contains
p⋆plus 99 distractor products sampled from the full 43,834-product catalog (excluding p⋆). At
evaluation, p⋆’s CLIP feature is replaced with the CLIP feature of ˆIu and all 100 candidates are
scored against the user embedding. We report Hit@5 and MRR over the 518 test users.
D.3
STYLE-DISCRIMINATION PROBE FOR PERSONALIZED CREATIVE GENERATION
The style-discrimination intuition is that a strong personalized image should look distinctively like
this user’s posts rather than a generic post in the same topic category. Generic-looking generations
are easy to confuse with other users’ posts and provide little value to the creator workflow.
Visual-only user encoder.
Unlike Amazon reviews, Instagram captions are short, often non-
English, and frequently just hashtags, so the textual stream contributes little reliable identity signal.
We therefore encode histories visually only. Each user’s H=20 most recent posts are encoded
through the shared CLIP encoder of Section D.1 and attention-pooled with a learned scalar head into
u ∈R256.
Training.
Trained on the 3,464 training-split users with batch size 32, AdamW (lr 1×10−4, weight
decay 1×10−2), 2-epoch warm-up, history dropout 0.1, and 50 epochs with early stopping on
validation Hit@1.
Negative pool difficulty.
Social media style discrimination has a distinctive structure: similar-
category users (two food bloggers) can be visually very close, while cross-category users (food vs.
travel) are trivially separable. To probe both regimes, we construct three negative pools per test user:
17


Preprint
• Inter-category (easy): 10 distractor users from different topic categories (chance 1/11 ≈
0.091).
• Intra-category (medium): 5 distractor users from the same category but with different
visual style, identified as the bottom 50% of users by cosine similarity of their CLIP history
centroid to u’s (chance 1/6 ≈0.167).
• Intra-style (hard): 3 distractor users from the same category whose history centroids are
closest to u’s (top 5% by cosine similarity, chance 1/4 = 0.250).
Ranking.
For each test user u with target post p⋆, the candidate set contains u plus the appropriate
distractor pool. We replace p⋆with ˆIu, encode it through the frozen image branch, and rank all
candidate users by s(u′, ˆIu). We report R@1 at the inter-category and intra-category difficulty levels
over the 314 test (user, target) pairs.
D.4
OUTPUT QUALITY
We use the LAION aesthetic predictor (the LAION-Aesthetics V2 model (Schuhmann et al., 2022)) to
score each generation on a continuous scale roughly 1–10, with higher scores corresponding to images
judged more aesthetically pleasing on the LAION training distribution. This is a reference-free metric
that verifies improvements on fidelity or user alignment do not come at the cost of obvious image
quality regressions. We report the mean over test instances.
D.5
MLLM-AS-JUDGE PROTOCOL
We elicit holistic user-alignment judgments via an ensemble of two multimodal LLMs: Gem-
ini Flash 2.5 and Qwen2.5-VL-32B. The ensemble is used to mitigate single-model bias; we report
the average of the two models’ scores per dimension.
Prompt template.
Both judges are given the user’s history Hu (a sequence of images and captions,
or reviews and product images, depending on the task) and a single generated image ˆIu,r. They are
asked to rate the generation on three dimensions, each on a 1–5 Likert scale:
• Style: how well the generation’s visual style (color palette, composition, lighting, framing)
matches the user’s history.
• Content: how well the generation’s subject matter and depicted activities match the user’s
history.
• Overall: an aggregate judgment of how plausibly the generation belongs to this particular
user.
The full prompt template is reproduced in Appendix F. Scores are rounded to one decimal place and
averaged across test instances and across the two judge models.
D.6
HUMAN EVALUATION
Scope and sampling.
We report one annotator’s complete evaluation of the original SDXL outputs,
comprising 25 Personalized Scene Generation comparisons (PEARL versus PMG) and 25 Personalized
Creative Generation comparisons (PEARL versus Pigeon), each involving a distinct test user. Later
scene rerenderings and their judgments are not pooled with this round. Sampling used fixed seeds
and available paired outputs, without inspecting output appearance or automatic scores. The scene
sample (seed 20260918) contains five Home and Kitchen users and four each from Automotive,
Clothing/Shoes/Jewelry, Electronics, Sports/Outdoors, and Tools/Home Improvement. The creative
sample (seed 20260917) contains five users each from food, interior, pet, travel, and other, using the
first held-out target for each user.
Annotation protocol.
The interface displayed anonymized A/B candidates, the user history, and
the generation condition. Scene cases also showed the reference product image and supplied product
description. The annotator could inspect images at full size. Case order was randomized, with PEARL
18


Preprint
placed on the left in 13 scene and 12 creative comparisons and on the right in the remaining cases.
The primary question asked which image better fit the person’s history, with choices A, B, about
equal, or insufficient evidence. A second question assessed product preservation for scenes and topic
adherence for creative posts, allowing A, B, about equal, or neither satisfies it. All 50 responses were
complete; none was excluded from the primary tabulation.
Displayed evidence.
Scene histories contained eight or nine reviews with associated images.
Creative cases showed the chronological union of the first five historical images used by PEARL and
the last five used by Pigeon (nine or ten distinct images), excluding both held-out posts. Captions and
generated prompts were not displayed for creative cases. Thus, the creative comparison evaluates the
saved pipelines with their respective history subsets; it does not isolate method effects under identical
conditioning.
Table 4: Human evaluation of the original SDXL outputs. Entries are counts (percentages),
with 25 pairs per task and question. The baseline is PMG for scenes and Pigeon for creative
generation. “Other” denotes insufficient evidence for history fit and neither image satisfactory for
product preservation or topic adherence.
Task
Criterion
PEARL
Baseline
Equal
Other
Scene
History fit
19 (76%)
4 (16%)
0 (0%)
2 (8%)
Scene
Product preservation
8 (32%)
3 (12%)
9 (36%)
5 (20%)
Creative
History fit
16 (64%)
9 (36%)
0 (0%)
0 (0%)
Creative
Topic adherence
18 (72%)
5 (20%)
2 (8%)
0 (0%)
Results and interpretation.
Table 4 reports every response category, retaining all 25 cases per
task in each percentage denominator. History-fit choices favor PEARL in this sample, while scene
product preservation is less decisive: nine pairs are judged equal and five unsatisfactory for both
methods. Creative topic-adherence choices favor PEARL in 18 cases, Pigeon in five, with two ties.
This single-annotator evaluation measures an outside observer’s assessment of fit to the available
history. It does not establish inter-annotator reliability, population-level preference, or statistical
significance.
Scene input uncertainty.
One scene account was subsequently flagged for target-review leakage in
a separate rerendering run. Its original SDXL generation inputs are unavailable for verification, so
contamination of the original outputs is unresolved. As a sensitivity check, excluding this account
from the original responses yields 18/24 history-fit choices for PEARL (75%), four for PMG, and
two insufficient-evidence responses. Product-preservation counts become eight for PEARL, three
for PMG, nine ties, and four neither-satisfactory responses. The primary table retains the complete
original sample and does not substitute rerendered outputs.
E
ADDITIONAL RESULTS
E.1
ABLATION STUDIES
We provide the full ablation study results in Table 5 and Table 6 for Personalized Scene Generation and
Personalized Creative Generation, respectively. Across both tasks, PEARL consistently outperforms
PEARL-SFT on the MLLM judge metrics, with the largest margins appearing on style and content
scores. This pattern indicates that the alternating-policy DPO stage primarily contributes to fine-
grained personalization details that the reflector identifies and corrects when conditioning on rendered
evidence, rather than to coarse changes in scene layout or subject matter that the planner alone can
already produce. The retrieval and image-quality metrics show smaller and less consistent differences
between the two variants, which is expected: surface-level retrieval encoders pool over global visual
features and cannot fully resolve the fine-grained stylistic adjustments where the reflector contributes
most. Notably, the marginal drop on the overall MLLM judge score (under 1%) suggests that
the reflector concentrates its gains on fine-grained personalization details rather than on drastic
adjustments to the rendered image. This is consistent with the findings of IRG (Huang et al., 2025),
19


Preprint
Table 5: Ablation Study for Personalized Scene Generation. Bold marks the best per column.
Retrieval
Image Quality
MLLM Judge (1–5)
Method
H@5 ↑
MRR ↑
Aes ↑
Cont. ↑
Overall ↑
Sty. ↑
PEARL-Reflection
0.2336
0.1583
5.32
4.14
3.99
2.74
PEARL (ours)
0.2297
0.1639
5.33
4.36
3.92
2.88
Table 6: Ablation Study for Personalized Creative Generation. Bold marks the better of the two per
column.
Target-based Image Metrics
Contrastive R@1
MLLM Judge (1–5)
Method
CIS ↑DIS ↑LPIPS ↓MS-SSIM ↑Inter-cat. ↑Intra-cat. ↑Sty. ↑Cont. ↑Overall ↑
PEARL-Reflection 0.635 0.285
0.732
0.057
0.838
0.701
3.529
3.331
3.516
PEARL (ours)
0.645 0.289
0.735
0.055
0.876
0.701
3.554
3.277
3.541
which similarly observed that interleaved reasoning yields its largest gains on fine-grained fidelity
rather than on coarse semantic alignment.
E.2
QUALITATIVE RESULTS
We provide additional qualitative results on Personalized Creative Generation in Figure 5. The three
users illustrate recurring posting preferences in interiors, food, and quilting. For User 1, the displayed
history contains light backgrounds, plants, and a fireplace scene. PEARL retains the light-colored
palette and includes a fireplace in a furnished living room, while LaVIT depicts a darker interior,
LLaVA produces a floral pattern, and PMG and Pigeon emphasize holiday decorations.
For User 2, the history includes close views of food and drinks presented on tables or counters, with
natural-looking light and visible ingredient textures. PEARL produces a salad in a white bowl on a
kitchen counter, retaining this photographic presentation. LLaVA instead produces a collage with
text, and PMG arranges ingredients around an empty central area; LaVIT and Pigeon also retain
plausible food-photography cues.
For User 3, the history repeatedly presents colorful geometric textiles in domestic settings. PEARL
depicts a patchwork quilt draped over a chair against a light wooden wall. LLaVA and PMG emphasize
flat patterns, while LaVIT depicts a wider furnished room without a prominent quilt; Pigeon also
captures a quilt displayed on furniture. These examples illustrate alignment with recurring choices in
color, framing, and setting across different subjects, without establishing exact reproduction of an
individual subject.
20


Preprint
User 1
User History
Held-out Target
LaVIT
LLaVA
PMG
Pigeon
PEARL
User 2
User History
Held-out Target
LaVIT
LLaVA
PMG
Pigeon
PEARL
User 3
User History
Held-out Target
LaVIT
LLaVA
PMG
Pigeon
PEARL
Figure 5: Additional qualitative results on Personalized Creative Generation. For each of three
users, the top row shows five historical posts alongside a held-out target post (rightmost), and the
bottom row shows generations from LaVIT, LLaVA, PMG, Pigeon, and PEARL. The examples
illustrate recurring choices in color, framing, and scene presentation across interiors, food, and
quilting content.
21


Preprint
F
PROMPTS
Task 1 Planning
System Prompt: You write a single-trait background prompt for an inpaint pipeline.
The target product is pasted into the final image as-is; you describe only the scene
AROUND the product, grounded in user identity element.
Review history:
{reviews_block}
Target product:
{product_description}
Image 1 is the product catalog photo (shown for context only; it will be
pasted into the output). Select one identity element from the reviews and
write a background-only scene prompt grounded in it.
Output in this EXACT 3-section format (tags literal, in order):
<chosen>
[one identity element, copied verbatim from the reviews. A brand, hobby, or
context.]
</chosen>
<why>
[One sentence: why this element fits this product better than others.]
</why>
<prompt>
[AT MOST 40 words describing the BACKGROUND scene around the product.
Describe ONLY setting, furniture/props, lighting, and atmosphere.
Must include the chosen element as a concrete scene noun.
Do NOT mention the product, its name, or anything that could produce a
duplicate product in the scene.]
</prompt>
Task 1 Reflection
System Prompt: You reflect on an AI-generated BACKGROUND scene for an inpaint pipeline.
The target product is pasted into the image as-is; you critique and refine ONLY the
surrounding scene, grounded in one user identity element.
Review history:
{reviews_block}
Target product:
{product_description}
The first image is the product catalog photo (context only). The second
image is a first-attempt BACKGROUND scene around the product. Critique the background
and write a refined BACKGROUND-only prompt.
Output in this EXACT 4-section format (tags literal, in order):
<analysis>
[What the background currently shows and which aspects of the user’s
identity are missing / misrepresented. Focus on the scene, not the product.]
</analysis>
<improvements>
[What a refined BACKGROUND should include. 2-3 concrete scene elements
grounded in user identity. Do NOT describe the product.]
</improvements>
<modifications>
[Step-by-step concrete bg changes. Prefer ADDING over REPLACING.]
</modifications>
<prompt>
[Refined BACKGROUND description --- AT MOST 40 words. Setting/props/lighting
grounded in user identity. Do NOT mention the product or anything that
could create a duplicate product.]
</prompt>
22


Preprint
Task 2 Planning
System Prompt: You are a visual style analyst helping create personalized image
generation prompts. You will see a social media user’s posting history. Your
job is to analyze their visual style, then write a detailed scene prompt that would
produce a new image matching their aesthetic. Captions may be in any language. Always
respond in English.
[5 history images]
Account: @{username} | Category: {category} | Followers: {followers}
The images above are this user’s recent posts (history).
Analyze the user’s visual style, then write a detailed scene prompt for a new {topic}
image that would match their aesthetic.
Output in this exact format (use the tags literally):
<think>
[2-4 sentences analyzing who this user is, their visual style patterns ---
color palette, lighting, composition, textures, mood, recurring elements]
</think>
<prompt>
[A detailed, specific scene prompt for a new image that fits this user’s
visual style. Include specifics about colors, lighting, composition, objects,
textures, atmosphere. Write it as a standalone image generation prompt.]
</prompt>
Task 2 Reflection
You are a visual style reflection reasoner. Given a user’s posting history and
a first-attempt generated image, critique the attempt and produce a refined prompt
that better matches the user’s aesthetic.
[5 history images]
[1 initial image generated by Stage 1]
Account: @{username} | Category: {category}
Images 1-{n_history}: This user’s recent posting history.
Image {n_history_plus_1}: An AI-generated image attempt for this user.
The attempt was generated from this prompt:
"{stage1_prompt}"
Compare the attempt with the user’s posting history. Identify STYLE differences
(colors, lighting, composition, mood) and produce a refined prompt.
IMPORTANT: Keep the SAME SUBJECT as the original prompt. Only modify style elements.
Your response must follow this exact structure:
<think>
[What the attempt got right and what STYLE elements it misses vs the user’s history.]
### Detailed Explanation of Required Improvements:
[Style/composition/lighting/color issues only. Do NOT suggest changing the subject.]
### Step-by-Step Modification Guidance:
[2-4 steps that modify style while keeping the same subject.]
### Final Comprehensive Prompt for the Improved Image:
[A refined version of the ORIGINAL prompt. Same subject, improved style descriptors.]
</think>
23


Preprint
Task 1 MLLM-as-Judge
You are evaluating an AI-generated image meant to be a personalized
product scene for a specific Amazon user. The user is described by their
review history (text), and the image should depict the target product
naturally placed within a scene that fits the user’s life.
User’s review history:
{reviews_block}
Target product: {product_description}
The image above is the AI-generated personalized scene. Rate it on three
aspects (integer 1-5, where 5 = excellent match):
- style: Does the scene’s visual style (lighting, palette, composition,
mood) match the aesthetic implied by this user’s reviews and lifestyle?
- content: Are the scene’s setting / props / activities
identifiably grounded in this user’s identity (hobbies, recurring
interests, household)? A generic "lifestyle stock photo" should score
low; a scene that obviously belongs to *this* user should score high.
- overall: Overall quality as a personalized product scene for this user
(combining visual quality, product integration, and identity fit).
Output ONLY:
style: <1-5>
personalization: <1-5>
overall: <1-5>
Task 2 MLLM-as-Judge
You are evaluating an AI-generated image meant to replicate a specific
Instagram user’s style.
Image 1 is a real post by the user (ground truth).
Image 2 is an AI-generated image intended to match that user’s style.
Rate Image 2 on three aspects (integer 1-5, where 5 = excellent match):
- style_match: Does Image 2 match Image 1’s visual style (lighting, colors,
composition, mood)?
- content_match: Is Image 2’s subject/scene appropriate given Image 1?
- overall: Overall quality as a personalized post matching this user.
G
NOTATIONS
Table 7 provides a summary and serves as a reference guide for notations used throughout the paper.
H
APPLICATIONS AND USE CASES
The problem formulation, benchmark, and evaluation protocol introduced in this work are designed
around two concrete instantiations, Personalized Scene Generation and Personalized Creative Genera-
tion, but the underlying task structure is general: given a user’s naturally occurring multimodal history
and a target specification, generate a novel image that reflects that user’s identity. This generality
makes the benchmark applicable across a broad range of settings beyond the e-commerce and social
media domains studied in the main paper. On the generation side, any task that requires situating
a given visual element in a user-appropriate context can be cast as a variant of Personalized Scene
Generation, including personalized advertising (Section H.1), lifestyle-aware product staging (Sec-
tion H.2), and object-to-scene synthesis as an inversion of the conventional image editing paradigm
(Section H.3). On the creative side, any task that requires extending a user’s established visual identity
to a new subject can be cast as a variant of Personalized Creative Generation, including content creator
tooling (Section H.4) and personalized narrative illustration (Section H.5). Beyond these generative
applications, the evaluation protocol itself is independently useful: the identity element extraction
pipeline provides a reusable diagnostic for user identity modeling (Section H.6), the retrieval-based
metrics support emerging work on generative recommendation (Section H.7), and the multi-axis
evaluation suite offers a standardized testbed for personalized multimodal agents (Section H.8) and
reasoning-interleaved generation more broadly (Section H.9). We describe each use case in turn.
24


Preprint
Table 7: Notation used throughout the paper.
Symbol
Description
Problem Setup
u
A user.
Hu
User u’s multimodal history; a sequence of prior activities.
h(u)
i
The i-th history entry for user u (e.g., a review with product image, or a post with
caption).
Nu
Number of history entries for user u.
T
A personalized generation task.
CT
Condition space associated with task T.
c ∈CT
Generation condition; specifies what the generated image should depict or preserve.
ˆIu,c
Personalized image generated for user u under condition c.
f T
θ
Task-specific parameterized model mapping (Hu, c) to ˆIu,c.
Task Instantiations
(ℓi, oi)
Personalized Scene Generation history entry: review ℓi paired with product image oi.
o⋆
Target product image (Personalized Scene Generation condition).
(zi, mi)
Personalized Creative Generation history entry: post image zi paired with caption
metadata mi.
t⋆
Target topic or content specification (Personalized Creative Generation condition).
PEARL Framework
πϕ
Planner policy with parameters ϕ.
πψ
Reflector policy with parameters ψ.
G
Frozen text-to-image generator (renderer).
r1
Planner reasoning trace summarizing implications of Hu.
s1
Initial scene description emitted by the planner.
I1 = G(s1, c)
Initial rendering produced by the renderer from s1.
r2
Reflector structured analysis comparing I1 against Hu.
s2
Revised scene description emitted by the reflector.
ˆI = G(s2, c)
Final rendered image after reflection.
Training
T
Teacher multimodal model used for silver trajectory distillation.
I⋆
u
Ground-truth identity signal accessible to the teacher (held-out target image or extracted
identity elements).
(r⋆
1, s⋆
1)
Silver planner trajectory produced by T .
(r⋆
2, s⋆
2)
Silver reflector trajectory produced by T .
˜I1
Pseudo-initial image rendered from s⋆
1 during silver supervision.
LSFT
Cross-entropy loss for Stage 1 supervised fine-tuning.
LDPO
Direct Preference Optimization loss for Stage 2.
πref
ϕ , πref
ψ
Reference (warm-started) policies frozen during DPO.
β
DPO temperature.
K
Number of candidate trajectories sampled per preference pair.
R(ˆI, Hu)
Task-aligned retrieval reward used to score candidates.
(·)w, (·)l
Winning and losing candidates in a DPO preference pair.
H.1
PERSONALIZED ADVERTISING AND PRODUCT PRESENTATION
E-commerce platforms currently serve static catalog images to all users regardless of individual
context. The Personalized Scene Generation task maps directly onto this setting: given a target
product and a user’s review history, the model must render a scene that reflects the user’s inferred
lifestyle and preferences. For instance, the same kitchen appliance should appear in a rustic farmhouse
countertop for a user whose reviews concentrate on homesteading and organic cooking, but in a
25


Preprint
minimalist urban apartment for a user whose reviews concentrate on compact living and modern
design. Practitioners can adopt the retrieval and recommendation metrics in our evaluation protocol
to benchmark generative models for personalized product imagery before deployment, providing a
reproducible offline proxy for engagement metrics such as click-through rate.
H.2
PERSONALIZED VIRTUAL TRY-ON AND LIFESTYLE STAGING
Virtual try-on methods typically composite a garment onto a reference body under controlled pose
and lighting. Our benchmark generalizes this setting by removing the assumption of a fixed reference
body and instead requiring the model to infer the staging context entirely from the user’s history. For
instance, the same jacket should appear on a mountain trail for an outdoor fitness enthusiast and in
a city commute scene for an urban professional, as determined by their respective review histories.
Unlike existing try-on benchmarks, which evaluate garment fidelity in isolation, our retrieval and
identity element metrics measure whether the staged context is appropriate for the target user, a
dimension that current benchmarks do not address.
H.3
OBJECT-TO-SCENE GENERATION AS INVERSE IMAGE EDITING
Conventional image editing takes a nearly complete scene as input and applies a local modification
(e.g., removing, replacing, or inserting an object) according to a textual instruction. Personalized
Scene Generation inverts this direction: the input is an isolated object, and the task is to synthesize
an entire surrounding scene from scratch, conditioned on the user’s history rather than on a pre-
existing canvas. This object-to-scene formulation introduces challenges absent from standard editing
benchmarks, including global scene layout planning, coherent background generation, and contextual
plausibility with respect to a user’s inferred identity. Our benchmark thus provides a complementary
evaluation axis for the editing community, measuring progress on outward scene construction around
a given object rather than inward modification within a given scene.
H.4
CONTENT CREATOR TOOLING
Social media creators cultivate distinctive visual identities through their posting histories, and
generated content that aligns with this identity is more likely to integrate naturally into their feeds.
The Personalized Creative Generation task directly measures whether a model can extend a creator’s
established aesthetic to a novel topic, making it a natural evaluation harness for AI-assisted content
creation tools. The contrastive retrieval metric, which tests whether a generated image can be
attributed to its creator against stylistic confounders, provides a principled signal for model iteration.
This enables tool builders to quantify style fidelity without relying on costly human evaluation.
H.5
PERSONALIZED STORYBOARD AND NARRATIVE ILLUSTRATION
Generating illustrations consistent with a particular user’s visual taste is central to personalized
storyboarding, children’s book creation, and narrative content generation. The Personalized Creative
Generation task maps directly onto this setting: the topic serves as the narrative prompt, and the user
history defines the illustrative style. The intra-category contrastive retrieval metric, which evaluates
whether a generated image can be attributed to its user against confounders that share the same
topical category but differ in visual style, provides a diagnostic for style consistency across generated
illustrations, a property essential for coherent visual storytelling but difficult to quantify with existing
benchmarks.
H.6
USER IDENTITY MODELING AND UNDERSTANDING
The identity element F1 metric introduced in our evaluation protocol extracts recurring objects, brands,
settings, and stylistic cues from a user’s history and measures their presence in the generated image.
This metric is useful beyond image generation: researchers studying user modeling, preference
elicitation, or profile summarization can adopt the identity element extraction and scoring pipeline as
a standalone diagnostic for evaluating inferred user representations. Unlike aggregate embedding-
based similarity measures, identity element F1 is interpretable at the per-element level, counting the
concrete identity cues the model captured and the ones it missed.
26


Preprint
H.7
PERSONALIZED RECOMMENDATION VIA GENERATIVE RETRIEVAL
Traditional recommendation pipelines retrieve from a fixed item catalog, but an emerging line of
work explores generating candidate items rather than retrieving them. Our benchmark supports this
paradigm by pairing user histories with a retrieval-based evaluation protocol that scores generated
images on whether they carry sufficient user-specific signal to identify the correct user or product. This
makes the benchmark useful as a testbed for generative recommendation, complementing standard
rating-based or click-based evaluation with a visual fidelity axis that existing recommendation
benchmarks do not provide.
H.8
EVALUATION OF PERSONALIZED MULTIMODAL AGENTS
As multimodal agents are increasingly deployed in interactive settings where they produce visual
outputs tailored to individual users, a standardized evaluation protocol for user-conditioned image
generation becomes essential. Our benchmark provides such a protocol: the combination of fidelity,
user alignment, and output quality axes jointly measures whether an agent’s visual outputs are both
high-quality and user-appropriate. Researchers building personalized assistants, avatar generators, or
interactive design copilots can adopt the evaluation suite to test whether their agent genuinely adapts
to user identity or merely produces generic outputs that satisfy surface-level quality constraints.
H.9
MULTIMODAL REASONING AND PLANNING
PEARL’s interleaved reason-then-reflect architecture is not specific to personalized image generation.
Any task that requires translating a complex, distributed multimodal context into a concrete output
specification, and then verifying that specification against rendered evidence, can benefit from the
same two-stage structure. Our evaluation protocol separately measures planning quality through
fidelity metrics and reflection quality through ablation of the reflector stage, providing a reusable
template for evaluating reasoning-interleaved generation in other settings (e.g., personalized document
layout, slide deck generation, or interior design rendering).
27
