Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
SALVATION LIES WITHIN:
ELICITING INHERENT
STYLE TRANSFER IN STEP-DISTILLED DIFFUSION
MODELS
Shengyin Sun1, Yiming Li1†, Yingzhao Lian1, Xing Li1, Xingzhi Zhou1, Anxin Tian1,
Zhili Wang1, Haoyang Li2, Ziqiang Cui1, Chen Ma3
1Huawei Technologies, 2Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 3City University of Hong Kong
shengysun4-c@my.cityu.edu.hk, li.yiming3@huawei.com
ABSTRACT
Adapting step-distilled text-to-image (T2I) models through post-training incurs
additional computational costs and affects native few-step generation behavior. This
motivates a complementary route beyond style-specific adaptation: drawing on the
visual knowledge already encoded in step-distilled T2I models to elicit stylistic
capabilities through language. Pursuing this direction requires textual guidance
that captures how visual attributes jointly define a style and remain applicable as
the depicted content changes. To explore this approach, we introduce StyleForge, a
fully automatic, training-free framework that expresses reference styles as reusable
rendering instructions. By integrating overall rendering characteristics with local
color and lighting behavior, StyleForge organizes visual evidence from reference
images into a coherent specification of how the target style should be expressed.
The specification is then compiled into textual guidance that can be reused across
content prompts, enabling frozen step-distilled T2I models to render different
subjects and scenes in the reference style while retaining native few-step generation.
Extensive experiments show relative gains of up to 29.47% in generation quality
scores over the strongest baseline, while Pareto analysis indicates that improved
stylization is accompanied by strong adherence to the requested content.
1
INTRODUCTION
Text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models have advanced rapidly (Yang et al., 2022; Cao et al., 2024),
enabling a wide range of applications in digital art (Gao et al., 2025), graphic design (Wang et al.,
2025), and visual content creation (Brooks et al., 2023). However, conventional diffusion models
typically require many sequential denoising evaluations, leading to high computational costs and
inference latency. To make generation more efficient (Sun et al., 2025a; 2026a), step-distillation
techniques have emerged (Lin et al., 2024; Ge et al., 2026; Sun et al., 2025b; Luo et al., 2025),
enabling high-quality synthesis in only a few denoising steps (Saharia et al., 2022).
Among the applications of step-distilled T2I models, style transfer is particularly demanding, for
it requires a model to preserve the rendering characteristics of a reference while synthesizing new
semantic content. Classical style transfer methods restyle a given content image through feature-
statistics alignment or adaptive feature transformation (Gatys et al., 2016; Huang & Belongie, 2017).
Recent style transfer approaches shift the focus from restyling existing images to synthesizing new
subjects and scenes in a reference style with T2I models through learnable style representations (Sohn
et al., 2023; Hertz et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2024). However, in the few-step setting, adapting these
models to new styles requires preserving the generation behavior learned during distillation. Prior
work has shown that conventional post-training methods, such as supervised fine-tuning (SFT), can
disrupt this behavior and produce blurry outputs (Jiang et al., 2026a), motivating training strategies
tailored to this setting. A representative effort in this direction is D-OPSD (Jiang et al., 2026a), which
uses on-policy self-distillation to learn new styles while retaining few-step generation quality.
†Corresponding author.
1
arXiv:2610.05066v1  [cs.CV]  4 Oct 2026


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Despite recent progress, such adaptation-based approaches still incur additional training costs, and
adaptation remains a delicate process that can compromise the model’s original few-step generation
capability (Jiang et al., 2026a). These limitations raise a natural question: Can the inherent capa-
bilities of step-distilled T2I models be elicited for style transfer? This possibility is motivated by
the remarkably broad visual vocabulary that modern step-distilled T2I models already command.
Even simple textual descriptions can evoke recognizable stylistic characteristics, suggesting that the
capabilities needed for style transfer may already exist within step-distilled models. The challenge is
therefore to identify transferable style information and organize it into textual guidance that elicits
the intended style across different subjects and scenes.
Visual style is characterized by recurring rendering attributes and the relationships that organize them
into a coherent appearance. Successful style transfer requires both fidelity to these characteristics in
the reference and adherence to the content specified by the target prompt. Meeting both requirements
through textual guidance presents three challenges: (i) Style descriptions may conflate reusable
rendering attributes with subjects and layout, introducing unwanted content constraints in new scenes.
(ii) Hue (e.g., red or blue) alone does not specify a color’s visual role or spatial extent: the same hue
may cover a broad material region or appear as a local luminous accent. (iii) Independently listed
visual attributes can leave local surface and color details disconnected from the overall rendering
manner, resulting in fragmented guidance for the step-distilled T2I model.
To address these challenges, we propose StyleForge, a fully automatic framework that enables style
transfer by eliciting the inherent capabilities of step-distilled T2I models. The framework organizes
visual attributes into a structured style state according to their transfer behavior, specifying which
information should be preserved, weakened, or excluded when content changes. Within this state,
color and light are specified jointly with their visual roles, transferable surface types, spatial extent,
and distribution. The state is then compiled into textual guidance that places local surface and color
attributes within the overall rendering manner. The resulting style prompt can be combined with
different content prompts to guide the frozen step-distilled T2I model in rendering new content in the
specified style. Our contributions are summarized as follows:
• We offer a distinct perspective on style transfer in the step-distilled setting that centers on eliciting
the model’s existing visual knowledge. Specifically, we frame the style transfer task as constructing
textual specifications of rendering behavior, enabling stylization across content without affecting
the model’s native few-step generation capability.
• Guided by the view that step-distilled T2I models already possess rich visual knowledge, we propose
StyleForge, an agent-driven framework that expresses style as structured rendering instructions by
jointly modeling rendering, color, and lighting at both global and local levels.
• Extensive experiments across diverse settings show that the StyleForge framework consistently
outperforms a range of baselines in generation quality, with relative gains of up to 29.47% over
the strongest baseline. Pareto analysis further demonstrates that StyleForge achieves a favorable
balance between style fidelity and content adherence.
2
RELATED WORK
Diffusion-Based Image Generation. Diffusion-based T2I generation has progressed from latent-
space denoising (Rombach et al., 2022) to scalable multimodal rectified-flow transformers (Esser
et al., 2024), improving image fidelity and prompt following. Alongside these quality improvements,
inference efficiency has become an important goal for practical deployment, as also reflected in
recent commercial models (OpenAI, 2026). Step distillation addresses this need by enabling image
generation in one or a few sampling steps. Representative methods learn consistent mappings along
sampling trajectories (Salimans & Ho, 2022; Song et al., 2023; Luo et al., 2023), match generated
and target distributions (Yin et al., 2024a;b), or incorporate adversarial objectives (Sauer et al., 2023).
More recent work refines distribution matching through Decoupled-DMD (Liu et al., 2025) and
integrates distillation with reinforcement learning in DMDR (Jiang et al., 2026b). Recent model
releases further demonstrate the practical viability of few-step synthesis: the distilled FLUX.2 [klein]
4B and 9B variants (Black Forest Labs, 2026) support image generation and editing in four steps,
while Z-Image-Turbo (Z-Image Team et al., 2025) combines a compact 6B backbone with eight-
step generation. Their low sampling budgets make interactive content creation and deployment on
2


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
consumer hardware increasingly practical. We therefore focus on step-distilled T2I models, whose
strong visual capabilities and low sampling cost favor widespread adoption.
Style Transfer. Early style transfer relies on feature-statistic matching (Gatys et al., 2016; Huang &
Belongie, 2017; He et al., 2024). With pretrained T2I models, reference-based customization becomes
possible through fine-tuning, as exemplified by DreamBooth for subject-driven generation (Ruiz
et al., 2023). Further work on style learning and reference-guided generation can be found in Gal
et al. (2022); Sohn et al. (2023); Hertz et al. (2024); Wang et al. (2024); Sun et al. (2026b). However,
extending style adaptation to step-distilled generators introduces an additional constraint: learning
the target style must preserve the generation behavior acquired during distillation. Conventional
denoising or flow-matching fine-tuning optimizes states derived from noised target images, which
can differ from those visited by the model’s few-step sampler; this mismatch can disrupt the distilled
behavior and produce blurry outputs (Miao et al., 2025; Jiang et al., 2026a). To address this issue,
PSO (Miao et al., 2025) uses pairwise sample optimization to directly tune timestep-distilled models.
D-OPSD (Jiang et al., 2026a) adopts on-policy self-distillation, using a teacher with richer multimodal
conditioning to supervise the student’s own sampling trajectories and learn new styles while retaining
few-step generation quality. These methods enable style adaptation in the few-step regime through
additional training. StyleForge explores a complementary approach by converting reference images
into reusable textual rendering instructions that elicit the frozen generator’s existing style capabilities
while preserving its native few-step sampling procedure.
3
METHOD
3.1
FRAMEWORK OVERVIEW: FROM MOTIVATION TO STYLE-GUIDE GENERATION
One established line of work approaches style transfer through post-training. Related work, such
as D-OPSD (Jiang et al., 2026a), adapts model parameters to a given reference style, maintaining
a style-specific learned state. Such adaptation incurs additional training costs for each target style
and may disrupt the model’s distilled generation behavior, degrading few-step image quality. This
motivates a central question: can style transfer be achieved without per-style post-training? Our
key insight is that modern step-distilled diffusion models already possess broad visual priors that
can be elicited through precise textual descriptions of rendering attributes. Figure 1 illustrates two
aspects of this control. In (a), the requested blue and yellow colors appear on the robot’s body and
scarf, respectively. In (b), the phrases “mostly” and “a small bottom layer” yield a dominant cyan
region above a thin magenta layer in the glass. These examples suggest that textual instructions can
specify visual attributes together with the surfaces they apply to, their relative extent, and their spatial
arrangement. This motivates expressing style as a structured specification of rendering behavior.
(a) Color Control
A photograph of a small toy robot 
wearing a yellow scarf, standing 
modestly sized in a snowy pine 
forest; the body exactly #1E90FF, 
scarf exactly #FFD60A.
(b) Proportion Control
A photograph of a cocktail glass in 
a warmly lit bar, filled mostly with 
exactly #00E5FF liquid and a small 
bottom layer of exactly #FF00AA 
liquid. 
Figure 1: Precise textual control of rendering attributes.
Motivated by this observation, we propose StyleForge, an agent-driven framework for style transfer,
as illustrated in Fig. 2. Given reference images, the agent extracts a style state and compiles it into
a generator-facing style prompt. For each generation prompt, the system reuses this style prompt,
combines it with the content prompt, and passes the combined prompt to a step-distilled diffusion
model to produce an image in the reference style. Formally, given a reference image set R and a
3


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
… Preserve saturated impasto surface and broad opaque paint-
fields. Preserve dominant cobalt-blue (#1251C1) and orange-red
(#FF7A12) fields across large scene planes. Preserve warm-yellow
(#FFC20A) slab light on broad bands and patches. Use central focus 
and layered depth only as weak guidance. Preserve a moderately
dark overall luminance and clear dark-light separation. …
(a) MR: Medium & Construction
Preserve!
(c) TR : Composition & Spatial Structure
Weaken?
(b) AR: Color, Lighting & Carrier Mechanism
Preserve!
(d) LR: Reference Content                                        Exclude! 
Saturated Impasto Surface
Broad Opaque Paint-Field
Central Visual Focus
Layered Depth Ordering
Dominant Cobalt & Orange Fields Warm-yellow Slab Light
Style-independent Content
(1) Structured Style Extraction 
Reference Images
Style-to-JSON
Visualization
{“Rendering MR”: 
          (a)
  {“Medium”: xxx, ..., “Surface”: xxx},
 “Color and Light AR”: 
          (b)
  {“Color”: xxx, ..., “Light”: xxx},
 “Composition TR”: 
          (c)
  {“Layout”: xxx, ..., “Depth”: xxx},
 “Reference Content LR”: 
          (d)
  {“Subjects”: xxx, ..., “Scenes”: xxx}}
Style_Evidence.json
(2) Color and Luminance Grounding 
Color Distribution (Top-5)
Luminance Distribution
Saturation Distribution
!"#$"%"&
#'()*
!++',"#&
"-(.*
!++%#/,&
""(0*
!/,#1',&
&.(-*
!#1'22'&
&.("*
Mean 0.38
Mean 0.61
(3) Style Prompt Assembly and Generation 
Assemble Evidence
Style-guided Generation
Style Prompt: 
{Assemble Evidence} 
Content Prompt: 
{A Dusk Avenue with   
   A Few Pedestrians,
 
Panoramic View}
Generation
Figure 2: Overview of StyleForge. (1) The agent extracts structured style evidence from reference
images. (2) Color and luminance statistics ground the extracted evidence. (3) The agent compiles a
reusable style prompt and combines it with new content prompts to guide a step-distilled T2I model.
generation prompt c, StyleForge computes as follows





SR = Ψ
 Φ(R; q), H(R)

,
pR = C(SR; π),
x = G
 pR ; c

,
(1)
(2)
(3)
where SR is the style state extracted from the reference images by the agent, pR is the style prompt
compiled from SR, and x is the image generated by the model. Specifically, the multimodal model Φ
extracts structured style evidence from the reference images according to parsing protocol q. The
color and luminance statistics module H supplements this evidence with information about global
value, chroma, dominant hues, and related properties. The state integration function Ψ organizes
these two sources of evidence into the style state SR. The prompt compiler C, following the fixed
ordering π, first describes the overall rendering manner, then explains how surfaces and colors realize
that manner, placing local attributes within the context of the global style, and converts the result into
the style prompt pR. Finally, the style prompt pR is concatenated with the generation prompt c and
passed to the step-distilled generator G to obtain x. We detail this process in the following sections.
3.2
STATE DESIGN: IDENTIFYING TRANSFERABLE INFORMATION
In analyzing the reference images, the visual style agent first distinguishes rendering practices that can
be reused across scenes from descriptions tied to the reference content. Lines and surface qualities are
usually transferable. Composition, including the number, positions, and spatial relations of subjects,
is tightly coupled to the content. Concrete subjects, scenes, and objects belong to the reference
content and may carry that content into a new scene if copied directly. To make the role of each
description explicit when content is replaced, StyleForge stores every description together with its
transfer policy in an internal state:
SR = (MR, AR, TR, LR),
(4)
where the rendering state MR represents transferable rendering practices, the color-and-light state
AR represents colors and illumination, the composition state TR represents compositional habits,
and the reference-content record LR represents the reference content. This partition is organized
around two requirements under content replacement: preserve visual mechanisms that can be reused
across contents, while preventing concrete content from the reference images from entering the new
scene. The role of each state component is detailed below:
• Rendering state MR. The state describes line and edge rhythm, shape and proportion, texture and
brushwork, detail density, ornamental contours, and visual flow, because these factors primarily
determine how the image is rendered and generally do not depend on the identity of a subject.
• Color-and-light state AR. The state records the surfaces on which colors and light act, their spatial
extent, and their distribution, because merely listing color names cannot distinguish a large-area
material color from a local highlight or emissive accent, causing colors to detach from their carriers.
4


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Table 1: Transfer policies for the four types of information in the style state SR.
Category
Description
Transfer Policy
Rendering MR
Medium, Surface, Line, Shape, Texture, Detail Density, etc.
Preserve ✓
Color and Light AR
Carrier Surfaces, Extent, Distribution of Colors, Light, etc.
Preserve ✓
Composition TR
Layout, Depth, Negative Space, etc.
Weaken ↓
Reference Content LR Subjects, Props, Scenes, Enclosing Structures, etc.
Exclude ✗
• Composition state TR. The state records spatial habits such as centered placement, shallow or
layered depth, and negative space. These relations are tightly coupled to the number, position, and
actions of the subjects, thus, the weak constraint on TR retains only spatial tendencies that can
transfer across scenes and does not fix the particular layout of the references.
• Reference-content record LR. The record stores the concrete subjects, props, scenes, and
enclosing structures in the reference images. It is used only to check that the style prompt excludes
reference content and does not participate in positive generation.
Accordingly, the rendering state MR and color-and-light state AR are written into the style prompt,
the composition state TR is retained only as a weak constraint, and the reference-content record
LR is used solely for subsequent checks. The transfer policies for the four state components are
summarized in Table 1.
3.3
COLOR ALLOCATION: PRESERVING CARRIERS AND DISTRIBUTION
The previous section places the color-and-light state AR among the transferable style mechanisms.
To achieve this transfer, the agent must preserve not only hue but also how each color functions in the
image: the same hue may form a large-area material color or merely a local highlight or emissive
accent, and these roles differ in their carrier surfaces, spatial extent, and distribution. The visual style
agent therefore first determines the visual role of a color, and then organizes that role together with
its carrier, scale, and color anchor as
a = (ρ, h, κ, s, g, ℓ) ∈AR,
(5)
where a denotes one color/light allocation, ρ specifies the visual role and scale of the color (e.g.,
dominant field color, large-area material color, medium light, small accent), h provides the hexadeci-
mal color anchor, κ identifies the carrier surface to which the color is attached, s specifies the spatial
extent of the color, g specifies the color’s spatial distribution, and ℓspecifies the color-attribute type
(e.g., material color, material light, secondary illumination, shadow structure, accent).
Based on the color/light allocation records in AR, the agent abstracts concrete carriers into transferable
surface types and generates corresponding extent constraints for each color. For example, a warm
orange on a small luminous ornament in a reference image is described as a color accent within
fine-scale luminous regions, while retaining its color anchor and restricting its coverage. When the
subject or scene changes, the carrier may change, but the accent’s role, scale, and distribution remain
constrained by the same record. The organization of color can therefore be reused without importing
the original ornament.
3.4
EXECUTION PIPELINE: BUILDING THE STYLE STATE AND GENERATING IMAGES
The preceding sections introduced the state design and the color-allocation rules. This section
instantiates them as an auditable pipeline executed by the visual style agent. The agent first parses
and integrates the reference image set R into a style state SR, then converts SR into a style prompt
pR, and finally combines pR with a new generation prompt to produce an image.
• Structured extraction (reference image set R →structured style evidence). To make visual
observations computable and checkable, the visual style agent invokes the multimodal model Φ
with the reference-image parsing protocol q to analyze R. Protocol q instructs the model to extract
rendering practices shared across the images, together with colors and their carriers. The protocol
also instructs the model to record subjects, props, and scenes that must not be transferred. Based
on the extracted information, the model outputs style evidence in a structured format (e.g., JSON),
5


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
organized into four categories: rendering MR, color and light AR, composition TR, and reference
content LR. To ensure structural validity and prevent reference-content leakage, the agent validates
the evidence before passing it to subsequent modules. All required fields must be present, and each
color record must include both a color and its carrier surface. Rendering descriptions must exclude
reference subjects, props, and scenes.
• Color and luminance statistics (reference image set R →color and luminance distribution).
To supplement global tonal information that is difficult to assess reliably from language alone, the
visual style agent invokes the color and luminance statistics module H. It computes luminance,
saturation, hue, and dominant color clusters over R, and summarizes them as global value, chroma,
dominant hues, and their coverage relations. For example, if the statistics show that the references
are dominated by high-chroma blue, the compiler requires blue to appear on carrier regions covering
a substantial area rather than only as a local accent.
• State mapping (structured style evidence + color and luminance distribution →style state
SR). The visual style agent uses the state integration function Ψ to convert the evidence from the
preceding two steps into a unified style state SR = (MR, AR, TR, LR):
– Categorization: Rendering fields are written to MR. Color roles, carrier surfaces, and
color/luminance statistics are written to AR. Transferable spatial tendencies are written to TR.
Subjects, props, scenes, and concrete enclosing structures are written to LR.
– Abstraction: Carrier descriptions tied to the reference content are rewritten as transferable
visual mechanisms, while the original carriers are retained in LR. For example, “segmented
curved illumination on a window” is abstracted as “segmented curved luminous organization”.
– Fusion and policy annotation: Color descriptions in the structured style evidence are merged
with the color and luminance statistics, and each record is annotated as preserve, weaken, or
exclude. For example, if the structured evidence describes a warm color as a local highlight
and the color statistics also show that it is concentrated in a small region, the “local highlight”
color record is preserved while its concrete carrier is marked as reference content and excluded.
• Prompt compilation (style state SR →style prompt pR). Compilation rewrites the structured
fields of the style state into natural-language style instructions usable for image generation. The
visual style agent invokes the prompt compiler C, which follows the fixed ordering π to compile the
transferable state into pR: it first describes the overall rendering manner, then the scope in which
that manner operates, and finally the colors and their carriers. The composition state TR appears
only as a weak hint. Before generation, the agent checks that pR contains none of the subjects,
props, scenes, or concrete enclosing structures in LR, and that all extracted rendering practices
and color allocations have been written into the style prompt. Once the checks pass, the agent
concatenates pR with the generation prompt c and feeds the result to the generator G to obtain x.
4
EXPERIMENTS
4.1
EXPERIMENT SETUP
We evaluate StyleForge on MegaStyle-1.4M (Gao et al., 2026), a diverse testbed for style transfer.
For efficiency, we randomly sample 31 style categories and generate 16 scenes per category for
each method, averaging metrics over these scenes. We instantiate the few-step distilled regime with
FLUX.2-Klein (4B and 9B), holding its native 4-step inference path and the target prompts fixed
across methods. All methods use a resolution of 1024×1024 and the shared set of 16 content prompts.
Additional visual results across generators are provided in Appendix A.3. We compare StyleForge
with five baselines: Vanilla SFT, PSO (Miao et al., 2025), D-OPSD (Jiang et al., 2026a), Direct Style
Extraction (DSE), and Reference-Guided Generation (RCG). For quantitative comparison, we use the
VLM-based Score (Jiang et al., 2026a) and pairwise Win Rate (Jiang et al., 2024) to assess overall
style-transfer quality. The former rates each generated image from 1 to 4 according to its adherence to
the target content and fidelity to the reference style, while the latter measures the proportion of direct
comparisons won by a method. Both metrics are obtained from judgments by Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct,
Qwen3-VL-32B-Instruct (Bai et al., 2025), and Qwen3.5-9B1. The content and style tradeoff is
examined through four complementary metrics in the Pareto analysis. CLIP-Text (Radford et al.,
2021) and VLM-F Macro (Lan et al., 2026) measure content fidelity, while CLIP-Style (Radford et al.,
1https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen3.5
6


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Figure 3: Qualitative comparison with baselines on FLUX.2-Klein-4B.
2021) and VLM-S Macro (Lan et al., 2026) measure style similarity. Higher values indicate better
performance for all metrics. Detailed baseline descriptions and implementation details are provided
in Appendix A.1.
4.2
RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
4.2.1
QUALITATIVE COMPARISON
Figures 3 and 4 present qualitative comparisons of StyleForge with baselines on FLUX.2-Klein-4B
and FLUX.2-Klein-9B, respectively. In Figure 3, StyleForge transfers the reference style more clearly
than the baselines: the mountain scene (row 1, column 2) takes on the neon-lit metallic look of
the cyberpunk references, and the market scene (row 3, column 2) takes on the bold red-and-black
graphic look of its references, including the ink-splash accents. Figure 4 shows a similar conclusion
on the 9B backbone: the forest trail (row 1, column 2) keeps the soft golden haze of its references,
and the vintage car (row 6, column 2) keeps the soft ink-wash look of its references.
Compared with StyleForge, the qualitative results highlight three issues observed in the baseline
outputs. (1) Reference content leakage. DSE may introduce objects from the references that are not
requested by the target prompt. For example, in Figure 3 (row 1, column 7), it generates a cyberpunk
7


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Figure 4: Qualitative comparison with baselines on FLUX.2-Klein-9B.
woman even though the prompt asks only for a mountain range at sunrise with a lake, clearly carrying
reference content into the output. (2) Weak style preservation. Baselines often fail to retain
distinctive visual cues from the references. For example, in Figure 3 (row 1, columns 3–6), D-OPSD,
PSO, Vanilla SFT, and RCG render a generic sunrise landscape instead of the neon-lit metallic look
of the cyberpunk references. (3) Degraded few-step generation. Adaptation-based baselines often
blur outputs or lose high-frequency detail under few-step generation. For example, in Figure 3 (row 2,
columns 3–5), D-OPSD, PSO, and Vanilla SFT reduce the ramen scene to diffuse orange blobs,
erasing bowl edges and noodle structure. Across these cases, StyleForge better preserves reference
style while keeping prompt-aligned content and clear detail under few-step generation.
4.2.2
QUANTITATIVE COMPARISON
Table 2 and Figure 5 provide complementary quantitative views of style transfer. Table 2 summarizes
overall transfer quality through Score and pairwise Win Rate across VLM judges and FLUX.2-Klein
backbones, whereas Figure 5 evaluates the content and style tradeoff by plotting content fidelity
against style similarity. The Pareto plot in Figure 5 uses the VLM-F Macro and VLM-S Macro scores
judged by Qwen3-VL-32B-Instruct; corresponding Pareto plots for Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct and
Qwen3.5-9B are provided in Appendix A.3.6. StyleForge delivers the strongest and most balanced
8


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
performance, attaining rank 1 across all settings with maximum gains over the second-best method of
29.47% in Score and 26.29% in Win Rate. Averaged across judges, the gains for the 4B backbone
are 13.40% in Score and 20.77% in Win Rate, compared with 14.24% and 24.81%, respectively, for
the 9B backbone. The Pareto analysis in Figure 5 places StyleForge at the Pareto frontier knee for
both backbones. DSE lies toward the upper-left because reference-content leakage increases style
similarity while reducing fidelity to the target content. D-OPSD lies toward the lower-right because
post-training degradation blurs the background and leaves the main subject overly salient, inflating
apparent content fidelity while weakening style similarity. StyleForge instead lies in the high-content,
high-style region, preserving target-prompt content while transferring reference style.
Table 2: VLM evaluation of content and style transfer on FLUX.2-Klein backbones ( Best ,
Second Best ). Gain is relative to the strongest baseline.
Method
Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct
Qwen3-VL-32B-Instruct
Qwen3.5-9B
Avg. Rank
Score
Win Rate (%)
Score
Win Rate (%)
Score
Win Rate (%)
FLUX.2-Klein-4B Backbone
DSE
3.226
52.67%
3.187
46.75%
2.077
46.06%
3.667
RCG
2.689
41.84%
2.950
47.53%
1.698
44.12%
4.500
Vanilla SFT
3.769
40.54%
3.300
29.43%
1.506
34.86%
4.167
PSO
3.757
37.82%
3.255
27.49%
1.496
32.65%
5.167
D-OPSD
3.558
57.42%
3.548
66.74%
2.016
65.29%
2.500
StyleForge
3.908
69.70%
3.798
82.06%
2.689
77.02%
1.000
Gain
3.69%↑
21.39%↑
7.05%↑
22.95%↑
29.47%↑
17.97%↑
–
FLUX.2-Klein-9B Backbone
DSE
3.205
53.55%
3.251
45.42%
2.230
46.26%
3.667
RCG
3.126
52.25%
3.358
59.99%
1.983
55.34%
3.833
Vanilla SFT
3.689
35.69%
3.228
27.44%
1.524
30.67%
4.500
PSO
3.541
29.18%
3.073
19.03%
1.394
22.09%
5.667
D-OPSD
3.588
57.68%
3.576
65.45%
2.220
65.04%
2.333
StyleForge
3.909
71.65%
3.856
82.66%
2.875
80.60%
1.000
Gain
5.96%↑
24.22%↑
7.83%↑
26.29%↑
28.92%↑
23.92%↑
–
20
24
28
32
CLIP-Text (higher is better)
16
20
24
28
CLIP-Style (higher is better)
FLUX.2-Klein-4B
DSE
RGG
Vanilla SFT
PSO
D-OPSD
StyleForge
20
24
28
32
CLIP-Text (higher is better)
16
20
24
28
CLIP-Style (higher is better)
FLUX.2-Klein-9B
DSE
RGG
Vanilla SFT
PSO
D-OPSD
StyleForge
8.0
8.5
9.0
9.5
VLM-F macro (higher is better)
6.0
7.5
9.0
VLM-S macro (higher is better)
FLUX.2-Klein-4B
DSE
RGG
Vanilla SFT
PSO
D-OPSD
StyleForge
7.8
8.4
9.0
9.6
VLM-F macro (higher is better)
6.0
7.5
9.0
VLM-S macro (higher is better)
FLUX.2-Klein-9B
DSE
RGG
Vanilla SFT
PSO
D-OPSD
StyleForge
Figure 5: Pareto comparison of content and style across FLUX.2-Klein backbones.
5
CONCLUSION
This work investigated how the existing visual knowledge of step-distilled diffusion models can
support reference-based style transfer without further training. To connect this knowledge with the
visual characteristics of a target style, we introduced StyleForge, which expresses the interplay of
rendering, color, and light as coherent guidance for image synthesis. By separating these relationships
from the particular subjects and scenes in the references, the framework makes the guidance reusable
as the requested content changes. This capacity to carry style across content is reflected in our
evaluation, where StyleForge improves transfer quality while maintaining a strong balance between
stylistic fidelity and content adherence, with the generator retaining its few-step synthesis capability.
Taken together, these results highlight the importance of how style is represented when drawing on
pretrained visual knowledge, and support explicit language-based guidance as a practical complement
to model adaptation.
9


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
AI USE STATEMENT
During manuscript preparation, we used large language models solely for language polishing, in-
cluding improvements to grammar, clarity, and readability. Large language models are also studied
as experimental components in this work, but were not used to design the algorithm or derive the
scientific contributions. The authors take full responsibility for the final manuscript, including all
AI-assisted revisions and the accuracy, originality, and integrity of its content.
ETHICS STATEMENT
This work studies style transfer using publicly available datasets. All models used were accessed
through publicly released checkpoints or publicly accessible APIs and used in accordance with their
licenses and terms of use. We do not collect human-subject data or private personal information as
part of this study. The experiments are conducted to evaluate image-generation behavior and do not
make claims about real individuals or events. We acknowledge the original creators and providers of
these resources. The generated images are presented only as research examples, and the authors are
responsible for the accuracy and context of the results reported in this paper.
REPRODUCIBILITY STATEMENT
Section 3 describes the style representation, color and luminance analysis, and generation pipeline,
with pseudocode provided in Algorithm 1 in Appendix A.2. Section 4.1 specifies the dataset, num-
bers of evaluated styles and content prompts, generator backbones, and shared inference settings.
Appendix A.1.1 describes the comparison methods, while Appendix A.1.2 reports the model con-
figurations and training hyperparameters. Appendix A.1.3 provides the metric definitions, score
aggregation procedures, and prompts used for VLM-based evaluation. The complete codebase for
reproducing our experimental results will be made publicly available upon paper acceptance.
10


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
REFERENCES
Shuai Bai, Yuxuan Cai, Ruizhe Chen, Keqin Chen, Xionghui Chen, Zesen Cheng, Lianghao Deng,
Wei Ding, Chang Gao, Chunjiang Ge, Wenbin Ge, Zhifang Guo, Qidong Huang, Jie Huang, Fei
Huang, Binyuan Hui, Shutong Jiang, Zhaohai Li, Mingsheng Li, Mei Li, Kaixin Li, Zicheng Lin,
Junyang Lin, Xuejing Liu, Jiawei Liu, Chenglong Liu, Yang Liu, Dayiheng Liu, Shixuan Liu,
Dunjie Lu, Ruilin Luo, Chenxu Lv, Rui Men, Lingchen Meng, Xuancheng Ren, Xingzhang Ren,
Sibo Song, Yuchong Sun, Jun Tang, Jianhong Tu, Jianqiang Wan, Peng Wang, Pengfei Wang,
Qiuyue Wang, Yuxuan Wang, Tianbao Xie, Yiheng Xu, Haiyang Xu, Jin Xu, Zhibo Yang, Mingkun
Yang, Jianxin Yang, An Yang, Bowen Yu, Fei Zhang, Hang Zhang, Xi Zhang, Bo Zheng, Humen
Zhong, Jingren Zhou, Fan Zhou, Jing Zhou, Yuanzhi Zhu, and Ke Zhu. Qwen3-VL technical
report. In arXiv:2511.21631, 2025.
Black Forest Labs. FLUX.2 [klein]. Black Forest Labs model documentation, 2026. URL https:
//docs.bfl.ai/flux_2/flux2_overview.
Tim Brooks, Aleksander Holynski, and Alexei A. Efros. InstructPix2Pix: Learning to follow image
editing instructions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2023.
Pu Cao, Feng Zhou, Qing Song, and Lu Yang. Controllable generation with text-to-image diffusion
models: A survey. In arXiv:2403.04279, 2024.
Zhongjie Duan and Yingda Chen. Compressing image style training into a single model forward. In
arXiv:2606.13809, 2026.
Patrick Esser, Sumith Kulal, Andreas Blattmann, Rahim Entezari, Jonas M¨uller, Harry Saini, Yam
Levi, Dominik Lorenz, Axel Sauer, Frederic Boesel, Dustin Podell, Tim Dockhorn, Zion English,
Kyle Lacey, Alex Goodwin, Yannik Marek, and Robin Rombach. Scaling rectified flow trans-
formers for high-resolution image synthesis. In Proceedings of the International Conference on
Machine Learning, 2024.
Rinon Gal, Yuval Alaluf, Yuval Atzmon, Or Patashnik, Amit H. Bermano, Gal Chechik, and Daniel
Cohen-Or. An image is worth one word: Personalizing text-to-image generation using textual
inversion. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
Junyao Gao, Yanchen Liu, Yanan Sun, Yinhao Tang, Yanhong Zeng, Kai Chen, and Cairong Zhao.
StyleShot: A snapshot on any style. In arXiv:2407.01414, 2025.
Junyao Gao, Sibo Liu, Jiaxing Li, Yanan Sun, Yuanpeng Tu, Fei Shen, Weidong Zhang, Cairong
Zhao, and Jun Zhang. MegaStyle: Constructing diverse and scalable style dataset via consistent
text-to-image style mapping. In arXiv:2604.08364, 2026.
Leon A. Gatys, Alexander S. Ecker, and Matthias Bethge. Image style transfer using convolutional
neural networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2016.
Xingtong Ge, Xin Zhang, Tongda Xu, Yi Zhang, Xinjie Zhang, Yan Wang, and Jun Zhang. SenseFlow:
Scaling distribution matching for flow-based text-to-image distillation. In Proceedings of the
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2026.
Feihong He, Gang Li, Fuhui Sun, Mengyuan Zhang, Lingyu Si, Xiaoyan Wang, and Li Shen.
FreeStyle: Free lunch for text-guided style transfer using diffusion models. In arXiv:2401.15636,
2024.
Amir Hertz, Andrey Voynov, Shlomi Fruchter, and Daniel Cohen-Or. Style aligned image generation
via shared attention. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2024.
Xun Huang and Serge Belongie. Arbitrary style transfer in real-time with adaptive instance nor-
malization. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision,
2017.
11


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Dengyang Jiang, Xin Jin, Dongyang Liu, Zanyi Wang, Mingzhe Zheng, Ruoyi Du, Xiangpeng Yang,
Qilong Wu, Zhen Li, Peng Gao, Harry Yang, and Steven Hoi. D-OPSD: On-policy self-distillation
for continuously tuning step-distilled diffusion models. In arXiv:2605.05204, 2026a.
Dengyang Jiang, Dongyang Liu, Zanyi Wang, Qilong Wu, Liuzhuozheng Li, Hengzhuang Li, Xin
Jin, David Liu, Changsheng Lu, Zhen Li, Bo Zhang, Mengmeng Wang, Steven Hoi, Peng Gao, and
Harry Yang. Distribution matching distillation meets reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of
the European Conference on Computer Vision, 2026b.
Dongfu Jiang, Max Ku, Tianle Li, Yuansheng Ni, Shizhuo Sun, Rongqi Fan, and Wenhu Chen. GenAI
Arena: An open evaluation platform for generative models. In arXiv:2406.04485, 2024.
Jinghong Lan, Wei Cheng, Yunuo Chen, Ziqi Ye, Peng Xing, Yixiao Fang, Rui Wang, Yufeng Yang,
Xuanyang Zhang, Xianfang Zeng, Difan Zou, Gang Yu, and Chi Zhang. FreeStyle: Free control of
style-content dual-reference generation from community lora mining. In arXiv:2606.20506, 2026.
Shanchuan Lin, Anran Wang, and Xiao Yang. SDXL-Lightning: Progressive adversarial diffusion
distillation. In arXiv:2402.13929, 2024.
Dongyang Liu, Peng Gao, David Liu, Ruoyi Du, Zhen Li, Qilong Wu, Xin Jin, Sihan Cao, Shifeng
Zhang, Hongsheng Li, and Steven Hoi. Decoupled DMD: CFG augmentation as the spear,
distribution matching as the shield. In arXiv:2511.22677, 2025.
Simian Luo, Yiqin Tan, Longbo Huang, Jian Li, and Hang Zhao. Latent consistency models:
Synthesizing high-resolution images with few-step inference. In arXiv:2310.04378, 2023.
Yihong Luo, Tianyang Hu, Jiacheng Sun, Yujun Cai, and Jing Tang. Learning few-step diffusion
models by trajectory distribution matching.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision, 2025.
Zichen Miao, Zhengyuan Yang, Kevin Lin, Ze Wang, Zicheng Liu, Lijuan Wang, and Qiang Qiu.
Tuning timestep-distilled diffusion model using pairwise sample optimization. In Proceedings of
the International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025.
OpenAI. GPT Image 2.5 Flare. OpenAI API model documentation, 2026. URL https://
developers.openai.com/api/docs/models/gpt-image-2.5-flare.
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal,
Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever.
Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In Proceedings of the
International Conference on Machine Learning, 2021.
Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Bj¨orn Ommer. High-
resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Confer-
ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2022.
Nataniel Ruiz, Yuanzhen Li, Varun Jampani, Yael Pritch, Michael Rubinstein, and Kfir Aberman.
DreamBooth: Fine tuning text-to-image diffusion models for subject-driven generation. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023.
Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Saurabh Saxena, Lala Li, Jay Whang, Emily Denton, Seyed
Kamyar Seyed Ghasemipour, Burcu Karagol Ayan, S. Sara Mahdavi, Rapha Gontijo Lopes, Tim
Salimans, Jonathan Ho, David J. Fleet, and Mohammad Norouzi. Photorealistic text-to-image
diffusion models with deep language understanding. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2022.
Tim Salimans and Jonathan Ho. Progressive distillation for fast sampling of diffusion models. In
Proceedings of the International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
Axel Sauer, Dominik Lorenz, Andreas Blattmann, and Robin Rombach. Adversarial diffusion
distillation. In arXiv:2311.17042, 2023.
12


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Kihyuk Sohn, Nataniel Ruiz, Kimin Lee, Daniel Castro Chin, Irina Blok, Huiwen Chang, Jarred
Barber, Lu Jiang, Glenn Entis, Yuanzhen Li, Yuan Hao, Irfan Essa, Michael Rubinstein, and Dilip
Krishnan. StyleDrop: Text-to-image generation in any style. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2023.
Yang Song, Prafulla Dhariwal, Mark Chen, and Ilya Sutskever. Consistency models. In Proceedings
of the International Conference on Machine Learning, 2023.
Shengyin Sun, Yiming Li, Xing Li, Yingzhao Lian, Weizhe Lin, Hui-Ling Zhen, Zhiyuan Yang, Chen
Chen, Xianzhi Yu, Mingxuan Yuan, and Chen Ma. Scaling Up, Speeding Up: A benchmark of
speculative decoding for efficient LLM test-time scaling. In arXiv:2509.04474, 2025a.
Shengyin Sun, Wenhao Yu, Yuxiang Ren, Weitao Du, Liwei Liu, Xuecang Zhang, Ying Hu, and Chen
Ma. GDiffRetro: Retrosynthesis prediction with dual graph enhanced molecular representation
and diffusion generation. In arXiv:2501.08001, 2025b.
Shengyin Sun, Yiming Li, Renxi Liu, Xinqi Li, Hui-Ling Zhen, Weizhe Lin, Chen Chen, Xianzhi
Yu, Mingxuan Yuan, and Chen Ma. PSD: Pushing the pareto frontier of diffusion llms via parallel
speculative decoding. In arXiv:2605.15609, 2026a.
Shengyin Sun, Yiming Li, Renxi Liu, Weizhe Lin, Hui-Ling Zhen, Xianzhi Yu, Mingxuan Yuan, and
Chen Ma. JuDi: Revisiting judge decoding from first principles via training-free distributional
divergence. In arXiv:2601.04766, 2026b.
Haofan Wang, Matteo Spinelli, Qixun Wang, Xu Bai, Zekui Qin, and Anthony Chen. InstantStyle:
Free lunch towards style-preserving in text-to-image generation. In arXiv:2404.02733, 2024.
Zhendong Wang, Jianmin Bao, Shuyang Gu, Dong Chen, Wengang Zhou, and Houqiang Li. Design-
Diffusion: High-quality text-to-design image generation with diffusion models. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2025.
Ling Yang, Zhilong Zhang, Yang Song, Shenda Hong, Runsheng Xu, Yue Zhao, Wentao Zhang,
Bin Cui, and Ming-Hsuan Yang. Diffusion models: A comprehensive survey of methods and
applications. In arXiv:2209.00796, 2022.
Tianwei Yin, Micha¨el Gharbi, Taesung Park, Richard Zhang, Eli Shechtman, Fr´edo Durand, and
William T. Freeman. Improved distribution matching distillation for fast image synthesis. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024a.
Tianwei Yin, Micha¨el Gharbi, Richard Zhang, Eli Shechtman, Fr´edo Durand, William T. Freeman,
and Taesung Park. One-step diffusion with distribution matching distillation. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024b.
Z-Image Team, Huanqia Cai, Sihan Cao, Ruoyi Du, Peng Gao, Aiming Hao, Steven Hoi, Zhaohui
Hou, Shijie Huang, Dengyang Jiang, Yuming Jiang, Xin Jin, Liangchen Li, Zhen Li, Zhong-Yu
Li, David Liu, Dongyang Liu, Qilong Wu, Feng Yu, Zechao Zhan, Chi Zhang, Shifeng Zhang,
Ruikai Zhou, and Shilin Zhou. Z-Image: An efficient image generation foundation model with
single-stream diffusion transformer. In arXiv:2511.22699, 2025.
13


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
A
APPENDIX
A.1
ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS
A.1.1
DETAILED BASELINE DESCRIPTIONS
We provide detailed descriptions of the baselines evaluated in this paper. All baselines are evaluated
with a shared protocol, including the reference image set, target content prompts, and image resolution.
They differ in how the reference style enters generation, as follows:
• Direct Style Extraction (DSE). A vision-language model summarizes the reference images in a
natural-language style description, which is combined with the target content prompt and supplied
to the generator as text.
• Reference-Guided Generation (RCG). The generator receives the reference images through its
native multi-reference interface along with a text instruction to render the target content in their
shared style. The reference style is conveyed jointly by image conditioning and textual guidance.
• Vanilla SFT. The reference style enters through style-specific training examples, whose supervised
objective updates the generator’s parameters.
• Pairwise Sample Optimization (PSO)2. PSO (Miao et al., 2025) uses pairwise preferences over
generated samples to indicate which outputs better match the reference style, and updates the
generator accordingly.
• D-OPSD3. D-OPSD (Jiang et al., 2026a) introduces the reference style through a multimodally
conditioned teacher that supervises the generator’s own few-step sampling trajectories. On-policy
self-distillation transfers guidance to the student while preserving few-step sampling behavior.
A.1.2
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
All experiments were conducted on a server equipped with eight GPUs. We use the 4B4 and 9B5
variants of the FLUX.2-Klein text-to-image generator with their native four-step sampling procedure
at a resolution of 1024×1024, using the same content prompts across methods. The visual style
agent uses GPT-5.56 through an OpenAI-compatible API to extract reference-style information. It
should be noted that StyleForge is model-agnostic and can use other compatible vision-language
models. For the trainable baselines, we train a separate LoRA adapter for each target style from the
reference images on both FLUX.2-Klein backbones. D-OPSD, PSO, and vanilla SFT use the same
adapter configuration, with rank r = 64 and scaling factor α = 128. Reference images are resized
and center-cropped to 1024×1024. For each training example, the caption is randomly selected from
eight English/Chinese variants, with a maximum text-sequence length of 512 tokens. We optimize
the adapters with AdamW using a constant learning rate of 1×10−5, (β1, β2) = (0.9, 0.999), and
ϵ = 10−8. Each adapter is trained for 1,000 optimizer updates and the total batch size is four. For D-
OPSD, the student and teacher share the same frozen backbone but maintain separate LoRA adapters.
The teacher adapter is initialized from the student adapter and updated after every optimizer step
with an exponential moving average (EMA) decay of 0.9999. Training follows a four-step on-policy
student trajectory and minimizes the mean squared error between the student and stop-gradient
teacher predictions of the clean latent at each step. Vanilla SFT minimizes the latent flow-matching
velocity MSE, with one timestep sampled uniformly from the model’s prescribed training timestep
schedule for each example. PSO uses the same timestep sampling strategy and pairs each positive
reference image with a negative image drawn from a fixed pool of 20 base-model samples per process.
Positive and negative examples share the same noise, timestep, and training text condition. We use
the PSO-DB objective with β = 5.0, a negative-loss factor of 0.1, and a prior-loss weight of 0.5.
2https://github.com/ZichenMiao/Pairwise_Sample_Optimization
3https://github.com/vvvvvjdy/D-OPSD
4https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.2-klein-4B
5https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.2-klein-9B
6https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-5.5
14


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
A.1.3
EVALUATION METRICS
We evaluate each generated image from two complementary perspectives. The first is an overall
assessment of whether the image jointly satisfies the target content prompt and transfers the reference
style. These results form the Score and pairwise Win Rate reported in Table 2. The second decomposes
this objective into content fidelity and style similarity for the Pareto analysis in Figure 5. Unless
stated otherwise, all statistics are computed over the same set of styles and content prompts, and
larger values indicate better performance. The evaluation metrics are detailed as follows:
• Score (Jiang et al., 2026a). We use Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct, Qwen3-VL-32B-Instruct, and Qwen3.5-
9B as independent judges. For each generated image, a judge receives the target content prompt and
evaluates the generated image against each available reference image, using each reference only for
style. The judge must assess the integrated style-transfer result rather than matching the reference
content. It outputs one of four ordered labels, mapped to 1–4: not consistent, slightly consistent,
mostly consistent, and highly consistent. The image score is the mean of the valid per-reference
scores, and the reported value is the mean over all generated images for each method and backbone.
The full prompt for evaluation is given below.
Score Prompt
[System Prompt]
You are a strict visual style-transfer evaluator for text-guided image generation.
You will receive:
- A target content prompt describing what the candidate image should depict.
- A first image that is a reference for visual style only.
- A second image that is the generated candidate image.
Judge the candidate as a complete style-transfer result. The candidate must simulta-
neously satisfy the target content prompt and express the reference image’s visual
style. The reference image content is not the target content: do not require the
candidate to copy the reference subject, objects, scene, layout, or composition.
Use the first image only to judge style.
Content criterion:
- Check whether the candidate visibly depicts the requested subject, scene, action,
objects, scale, and viewpoint from the target content prompt.
- A generic, missing, wrong, or materially changed main subject should lower the
judgment even if the style looks plausible.
Style criterion:
- Check whether the candidate transfers the reference’s visual style through
medium, rendering method, palette behavior, lighting treatment, texture, line
and edge quality, abstraction level, graphic effects, and atmosphere.
- Do not give high credit for generic style-category words alone when the concrete
visual style cues are weak or absent.
Joint criterion:
- Give a high label only when the requested content and the reference style are
both present and naturally integrated in the same image.
- Judge the overall semantic success directly. Do not compute a mechanical minimum,
average, or checklist score between content and style.
Scoring labels:
- highly consistent: the candidate clearly depicts the target content and strongly
transfers the reference visual style as an integrated result.
- mostly consistent: the candidate depicts the main target content and transfers
most important style cues, with only minor omissions or drift.
- slightly consistent: the candidate has partial target content or partial style
transfer, but one side is weak, incomplete, generic, or poorly integrated.
- not consistent: the candidate misses the target content, misses the reference
style, or looks like a different/generic result.
Output exactly one label from this list:
- highly consistent, mostly consistent, slightly consistent, not consistent.
[User Prompt]
15


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
[Reference Image] [Generated Image] [Content Prompt]
The first image is a style reference only.
The second image is the generated
candidate. Judge whether the second image both depicts the target content prompt
and transfers the first image’s visual style as one integrated result. Output one
label only. Output exactly one digit and nothing else: 4 = highly consistent, 3 =
mostly consistent, 2 = slightly consistent, 1 = not consistent.
• Pairwise Win Rate (Jiang et al., 2024). The same VLM judges compare two candidates generated
for the same target prompt. Each comparison provides a style-reference board, Candidate A, and
Candidate B, and asks the judge to select the better complete style-transfer result by jointly considering
content correctness and reference-style fidelity. Every unordered method pair is evaluated in both
candidate orders. A win, tie, and loss contribute 1, 0.5, and 0, respectively. We first average the
ordered comparisons for each method–opponent matchup and then average equally over all other
methods. The resulting average Pairwise Win Rate is reported as a percentage. The comparison
prompt is shown below.
Pairwise Preference Prompt
[System Prompt]
You are a strict pairwise evaluator of text-guided visual style transfer.
You will receive:
- a target content prompt;
- a style-reference board containing examples of the target visual style;
- Candidate A and Candidate B, which were generated for the same target.
Choose which candidate is the better complete style-transfer result. Judge the two
candidates jointly on both criteria below.
Content correctness:
- The candidate should visibly depict the requested subject, scene, action, ob-
jects, scale, and viewpoint.
- Missing or materially changing an important requested element is a serious
failure even when the candidate looks attractive.
Reference-style fidelity:
- The candidate should transfer the reference examples’ visual style through
medium and rendering method, palette behavior, lighting, texture, line and edge
quality, abstraction level, geometry, graphic effects, and atmosphere.
- The reference-board content is not the requested content.
Do not reward a
candidate for copying the reference subjects, objects, scene, layout, or com-
position.
- Do not reward a generic match to a broad style name when the concrete visual
mechanisms shown in the references are weak or absent.
Prefer the candidate in which correct target content and faithful reference style
are more successfully integrated. Do not assign independent numerical scores. Use
a tie only when neither candidate is clearly better overall, such as an effectively
indistinguishable result or a genuine balanced tradeoff.
The final answer must be exactly one uppercase letter and nothing else:
- A = Candidate A is better
- B = Candidate B is better
- C = tie
[User Prompt]
[Style Reference Board] [Candidate A Image] [Candidate B Image] [Content Prompt]
The first image is the STYLE REFERENCE BOARD only; its depicted content is not the
target. The second image is CANDIDATE A. The third image is CANDIDATE B. Select the
better joint content-and-style result. Output exactly A, B, or C.
• CLIP-Text and CLIP-Style (Radford et al., 2021). CLIP-Text measures alignment between a
generated image x and its target content prompt c, whereas CLIP-Style measures alignment between
x and the canonical style prompt s provided by MegaStyle-1.4M. It should be noted that CLIP-Text
16


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
and CLIP-Style use a CLIP ViT-H/147 encoder. For an image x and a text prompt t, the CLIP score
is defined as
CLIP(x, t) = exp(ℓ)
fI(x)⊤fT (t)
∥fI(x)∥2 ∥fT (t)∥2
,
where fI and fT are the image and text embeddings and ℓis the learned logit scale. We average
each score over all generated images for a method and backbone. Higher CLIP-Text and CLIP-Style
indicate stronger content and style alignment, respectively.
• VLM-F and VLM-S (Lan et al., 2026). VLM-F (instruction following) scores how well a generated
image satisfies the target content prompt on a 0–10 scale. The evaluator checks the requested subjects,
attributes, actions, and spatial constraints. VLM-S (style similarity) compares the generated image
with the first style-reference image on a 0–10 integer scale, considering brushstroke and edge behavior,
texture, color system and distribution, shape language, and recurring patterns. For each method and
backbone, we first average scores within each style and then average the per-style means, yielding
VLM-F Macro and VLM-S Macro. VLM-F allows scores in increments of 0.5, whereas VLM-S
requires integer scores.
VLM-F Prompt
[User Prompt]
Final image: [Generated Image] Instruction: [Target Content Prompt]
You will be given:
1) An image (the final generated result).
2) An instruction (the target content prompt).
Task:
Score how well the final image follows the instruction, from 0 to 10. Give PARTIAL
CREDIT whenever the image implements some parts correctly. Do NOT assume anything
that is not clearly visible in the image.
Important evaluation rule:
- Ignore style/aesthetic differences (rendering style,
brushwork,
resolution,
noise, overall beauty) ONLY IF the instruction does NOT explicitly ask for
them.
- If the instruction explicitly mentions color, lighting, mood, style, lens,
texture, etc., then you MUST evaluate those aspects (do NOT ignore them).
How to score (internal steps; do not output these steps):
1) Break the instruction into atomic, checkable requirements:
- main subject(s) / objects
- key attributes (color, material, count, size, identity if specified)
- actions / interactions
- spatial/layout constraints (left/right, background, position)
- any required text/logos (exact wording matters)
Mark each requirement as MUST-HAVE or NICE-TO-HAVE.
2) For each requirement, judge: satisfied / partially satisfied / not satisfied
/ contradicted.
3) Combine into a final score using this guidance:
- Start from 10 and subtract penalties:
* Missing a MUST-HAVE requirement: -2 to -4 (bigger miss = bigger penalty)
* Partially meeting a MUST-HAVE: -1 to -2
* Minor detail wrong (NICE-TO-HAVE): -0.5 to -1
* Direct contradiction (e.g., asked to add X but it removes X): -3 to -5
* Wrong or missing required text/logo: -3 to -6
Clamp the result to [0, 10].
Score anchors (use these to avoid extreme scores):
- 9–10:
All MUST-HAVEs satisfied; at most tiny minor issues.
Use 10 ONLY if
nothing important is missing or wrong.
- 7–8.5: Most MUST-HAVEs satisfied; 1–2 notable misses or several small issues.
- 4–6.5: Some key parts are implemented, but major omissions/misapplied edits
exist.
- 1–3.5: Slight relation, but most MUST-HAVEs are missing/wrong.
7https://huggingface.co/laion/CLIP-ViT-H-14-laion2B-s32B-b79K
17


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
- 0–0.5: Completely unrelated or clearly opposite to the instruction. Use 0 ONLY
when it is truly a total failure.
Output rules (very important):
* Output ONLY one line in the format: score@reason
* score must be a number from 0 to 10, allowing .5 steps (e.g., 7.5).
Do NOT
always use 0 or 10.
* reason must be 1-2 short sentences, specific and directly observable (mention
1-2 key satisfied/missed requirements).
VLM-S Prompt
[User Prompt]
Image A: [Reference Image] Image B: [Generated Image]
You will see two images: A and B. Please assess their consistency solely in terms
of visual/artistic style. Do not judge based on whether the depicted subjects are
the same (people/objects/scenes may be completely different).
Assign an overall
similarity score from 0 to 10 by considering all dimensions together.
Dimension definitions (judge strictly according to the following meanings):
1) BRUSHSTROKE (brushstrokes/lines/edge treatment)
- Line thickness, whether lines are shaky, outlining methods, and how visible
brush marks are.
- Whether edges are hard or soft, whether outlines are present, and stroke
characteristics such as smearing/splattering/pencil/pen marks.
2) TEXTURE (texture/material rendering/grain and noise/canvas and paper texture)
- Microscopic surface grain:
e.g., "sandpaper grain/film noise/watercolor
paper fibers/oil-painting canvas weave".
- How fine material structures are rendered:
e.g.,
"built-up paint tex-
ture/spray dots/halftone dots/relief texture".
- Note: TEXTURE is neither color palette nor shape contours.
3) COLOR (color palette and distribution/color temperature/saturation/contrast).
- Dominant colors and color-temperature tendencies (cool/warm), saturation
levels, and the strength of light-dark contrast.
- Similarity in color distribution: e.g., "whether the proportions/coverage of
major colors are similar (large background regions, proportions of dominant
color blocks)".
- Note: COLOR is neither texture grain nor brushstroke lines.
4) SHAPE (shape language/characteristic forms).
- The degree of geometric or realistic stylization, whether proportions are
exaggerated, and whether contours are sharper or more rounded.
- How structures are simplified (e.g., flat cartoons, chibi, minimalist ge-
ometry, realistic structures).
5) PATTERN (patterns/motifs/decorative patterning).
- Whether there are repeated patterns, decorative elements, or recurring
symbolic motifs (e.g., fixed patterns, recurring decorative lines, patterned
backgrounds).
- Whether pattern density, repetition rules, and the arrangement of decorative
elements are similar.
Scoring criteria (0-10; score strictly):
* 0: The styles are completely inconsistent, with virtually no basis for consid-
ering them the same along this dimension.
* 1–3: Mostly inconsistent, with only very weak/incidental similarities.
* 4–6: Some similarity, but clear omissions or key differences remain.
* 7–9: Largely consistent, with only a few minor issues.
* 10: Fully consistent, with a high degree of agreement in the key characteristics.
Important notes (must be followed):
* Score strictly. Do not give high scores unless the images clearly and accurately
match along the dimension being assessed.
* Only assess consistency in style dimensions; do not consider whether the people
have the same identity, whether the objects are the same, or whether the
backgrounds/scenes match.
18


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
* Do not judge aesthetic quality or whether the image looks attractive.
Output rules (very important):
* score must be an integer from 0 to 10.
* reason must be 1-2 sentences stating specific, observable evidence.
* Output strictly in the format score@reason (output only this single line; do
not output any additional characters/punctuation/line breaks).
A.2
ALGORITHM OVERVIEW
Algorithm 1 details the StyleForge pipeline for constructing reusable style instructions. Stages 1–4
expand the state integration in Eq. 1, grounding color allocations in reference statistics, abstracting
their carriers, and assigning transfer policies. Stage 5 compiles the state into a style prompt and
checks its coverage and exclusion of reference content. These stages are executed once per reference
set. Stage 6 reuses the validated prompt across content prompts while keeping the parameters and
native few-step sampling procedure of the step-distilled T2I model fixed. This preserves the model’s
native few-step generation capability.
Algorithm 1 StyleForge: Style Transfer with Reusable Rendering Instructions
Require: Reference image set R; N target content prompts {cj}N
j=1; multimodal parser Φ with parsing
protocol q; color/luminance analyzer H; prompt compiler C with order π = (rendering, scope, color);
frozen step-distilled generator G
Ensure: Reusable style prompt pR and stylized image xj for each content prompt cj
1: // Stage 1: Structured reference parsing
2: // MR: rendering practices; AR: color/light allocation records
3: // TR: compositional tendencies; LR: reference-content records
4: ER ←Φ(R; q)
▷structured style evidence
5: assert ER contains all required fields and color–carrier pairs
6: (MR, AR, TR, LR) ←ER
7: assert MR excludes reference subjects, props, and scenes
8: // Stage 2: Color and luminance grounding
9: DR ←H(R)
▷reference color and luminance statistics
10: Refine color anchors and coverage in AR using DR
11: // Stage 3: Transferable color carriers
12: // ρ: visual role and scale; h: hex color anchor; κ: carrier surface
13: // s: spatial extent; g: spatial distribution; ℓ: color/light attribute type
14: for i = 1, . . . , |AR| do
▷|AR|: number of color records
15:
(ρ, h, κ, s, g, ℓ) ←AR[i]
▷the i-th color allocation
16:
if κ is tied to reference content then
17:
LR ←LR ∪{κ}
▷retain the original carrier for auditing
18:
κ′ ←transferable surface description of κ
19:
AR[i] ←(ρ, h, κ′, s, g, ℓ)
▷preserve color, role, and extent
20:
end if
21: end for
22: // Stage 4: Style-state assembly
23: Preserve MR, AR; retain TR only as weak spatial tendencies
24: Keep LR solely for reference-content exclusion checks
25: SR ←(MR, AR, TR, LR)
▷integrated style state
26: // Stage 5: Prompt compilation and validation
27: pR ←C(SR; π)
▷rendering →scope →color
28: assert pR covers all rendering and color records in MR, AR
29: assert pR contains no reference content recorded in LR
30: // Stage 6: Reusable few-step generation
31: for j = 1, . . . , N do
32:
xj ←G(pR ; cj)
▷concatenate pR and cj; native sampler
33: end for
34: return pR, {xj}N
j=1
19


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
A.3
FURTHER ANALYSIS
A.3.1
ADDITIONAL QUALITATIVE RESULTS ON THE FLUX.2-KLEIN SERIES
Figures 6 and 7 supplement the qualitative comparisons in Section 4.2.1 by showing the same style–
content pairs on the other FLUX.2-Klein backbone. Specifically, Figure 6 revisits the examples in
Figure 4 using the 4B model, while Figure 7 revisits those in Figure 3 using the 9B model. These
paired comparisons help assess whether the observed behavior persists across model sizes.
Figure 6: Additional qualitative comparison with baselines on FLUX.2-Klein-4B.
StyleForge retains distinctive rendering and color characteristics across these additional cases. In
Figure 6, the fox (row 2, column 2) combines the warm red-and-gold palette of the references with
strong light–dark contrast, while the vintage car (row 6, column 2) is rendered with translucent blue
washes and a paper-like texture. In Figure 7, the city avenue (row 5, column 2) carries over the
saturated blue–orange palette and pronounced brushwork of the references. The fishing harbor (row 6,
column 2) instead adopts flat teal and yellow-orange shapes characteristic of the reference posters.
These examples illustrate how reference-style characteristics can be expressed through different
requested subjects and scenes on both backbones.
20


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Figure 7: Additional qualitative comparison with baselines on FLUX.2-Klein-9B.
The additional comparisons also show the baseline failure modes discussed in Section 4.2.1. DSE
introduces reference-associated figures into unrelated prompts: it replaces the fox with a crowned
human figure in Figure 6 (row 2, column 7) and adds a standing man to the lounge interior in Figure 7
(row 4, column 7). RCG preserves the lounge content but renders it in warm colors (row 4, column 6),
whereas StyleForge retains the monochrome lighting of the film-noir references. PSO and Vanilla
SFT produce blurred structures in the forest trail of Figure 6 (row 1, columns 4–5) and the city avenue
of Figure 7 (row 5, columns 4–5). Together, these observations reinforce the finding that StyleForge
better balances reference-style fidelity, content adherence, and visual clarity under native few-step
generation on both FLUX.2-Klein backbones.
A.3.2
COMPARISON WITH IMAGE-TO-LORA STYLE TRANSFER
To complement the comparisons in Section 4.2.1, Figure 8 presents a qualitative comparison with
i2L (Duan & Chen, 2026), a feed-forward image-to-LoRA style-transfer method that predicts LoRA
adapter weights directly from reference images. We use its released KleinBase4B-i2L-v28 model to
examine how StyleForge’s outputs compare with this distinct reference-to-adapter paradigm. The
two methods use different generator checkpoints within the FLUX.2-Klein-4B series. The i2L is
8https://modelscope.cn/models/DiffSynth-Studio/KleinBase4B-i2L-v2
21


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
designed for the base model and is evaluated here with classifier-free guidance (CFG) scales of 1 and
4. StyleForge uses the step-distilled model with native few-step sampling, which does not support
adjustable CFG. Since both the generator checkpoint and inference configuration differ, these results
provide a supplementary qualitative comparison rather than a controlled comparison under identical
generation conditions.
Figure 8: Supplementary qualitative comparison with i2L on the FLUX.2-Klein-4B series. Each
group shows style references, StyleForge using the step-distilled model, and i2L using the base model
with CFG scales of 1 and 4.
As shown in Figure 8, StyleForge is visually competitive with i2L across diverse styles and performs
favorably on several style–content pairs. Both methods capture the cyan-lit metallic appearance of
the mountain scene (row 1, left group), the monochrome lighting of the lounge (row 2, right group),
and the carved black-and-white marks of the portrait (row 6, left group). In some cases, StyleForge
more closely preserves specific reference characteristics. For the market scene (row 2, left group), it
retains the restricted red-and-black palette, while both i2L configurations introduce multicolored fruit
and flowers. For the vintage car (row 6, right group), StyleForge preserves pale watercolor washes
and soft transitions, while i2L at CFG=4 produces more saturated colors and stronger outlines. These
examples illustrate that StyleForge can achieve competitive reference-style fidelity through textual
guidance while retaining few-step generation. More generally, the side-by-side examples provide
a convenient visual check of palette, illumination, surface treatment, and edge rendering across
different content prompts. By placing each reference beside outputs for the same content prompt, the
comparison exposes whether a method transfers these reference-specific properties while preserving
the requested content, including distinctions that aggregate quantitative scores may obscure.
22


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Figure 9: Qualitative comparison with baselines on Z-Image-Turbo 6B.
23


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Figure 10: Qualitative style-transfer results with GPT-Image-2.5-Flare. The first column shows style
references, and the remaining columns show generated images for different content prompts.
Figure 11: Qualitative style-transfer results with Nano-Banana-2-Lite. The first column shows style
references, and the remaining columns show generated images for different content prompts.
24


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
A.3.3
GENERALIZATION TO OTHER EFFICIENT IMAGE GENERATORS
To examine whether StyleForge’s extracted style representation transfers beyond the FLUX.2-Klein
family, we first reuse the same rendering instructions with Z-Image-Turbo 6B9, a few-step distilled
generator. Z-Image-Turbo does not support reference-image conditioning, so RCG is not applica-
ble and is omitted from Figure 9. StyleForge is therefore evaluated through its extracted textual
instructions. The results preserve recognizable palette structure, contrast, and lighting cues across
the requested subjects, indicating that the extracted description remains effective when the generator
changes. Z-Image-Turbo appears somewhat less consistent in following explicit hexadecimal color
specifications than the FLUX.2-Klein series, so its overall color control is slightly less precise. This
difference is best understood as a property of the generator’s conditioning behavior and does not
prevent the broader rendering style from transferring. We then apply the same instructions to the
efficient closed-source systems GPT-Image-2.5-Flare10 and Nano-Banana-2-Lite11. Figure 10 shows
that GPT-Image-2.5-Flare follows the extracted style cues across portraits, objects, and scenes while
adapting them to different content prompts. The results in Figure 11 provide a similar observa-
tion for Nano-Banana-2-Lite. Consistent style transfer on a distilled generator and two efficient
closed-source systems suggests that StyleForge captures reusable textual style descriptions rather
than generator-specific visual features.
Image 1: Can
Image 2: Car
Image 3: Berry bowl
Prompt
A cinematic photograph of a toy-car collision on a wet mountain
road. From left to right: the can from image 1, the car from image
2, and the blueberry bowl from image 3. The car's front bumper
presses into the can's lower right side, tipping it. Keep the can
outside the car, with its entire label visible. Retain the toy driver
and antenna. A short rear towbar pulls the bowl on a tiny trailer;
berries fly upward. Preserve all reference colors, shapes, graphics
and lettering. Low camera, frozen splashes, golden storm light,
winding asphalt, pine cliffs, a distant viaduct and misty peaks.
With three references
Text only | same prompt and seed
Figure 12: Qualitative illustration of subject driven generation with a step-distilled model. Three
reference subjects, a can, a toy car, and a berry bowl, are placed in a new cinematic scene. The
reference-conditioned result preserves their colors, graphics, shapes, and lettering, while the text-only
sample uses the same prompt and seed without access to the reference images.
A.3.4
DISCUSSION OF THE SUBJECT DRIVEN GENERATION TASK
Prior work such as D-OPSD (Jiang et al., 2026a) studies subject driven generation together with
style transfer. In this work, we focus on transferring visual style to new content and treat subject
driven generation as a related but separate setting. This scope is motivated by the capabilities of
modern step-distilled T2I models: subject driven generation is already a strong native capability.
Given a small set of reference images, these models can preserve the identities and fine visual details
of multiple subjects while composing them in a new scene. We include the following example to
illustrate this native capability and to clarify the distinction between these two uses of reference
images. Figure 12 gives a qualitative illustration. We provide three reference images, showing a
9https://huggingface.co/Tongyi-MAI/Z-Image-Turbo
10https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/models/gpt-image-2.5-flare
11https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/image-generation
25


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
can, a toy car, and a berry bowl, and ask the model to place all three subjects in a new cinematic
mountain-road scene. With the references, the generated image retains the identities and salient
details of all three objects: the can’s blue color, graphics, and lettering, the toy car’s red-and-green
body, driver, and antenna, and the bowl’s shape, grid pattern, and handwritten text. The generated
scene also composes these objects into the requested interaction, including the collision, trailer,
and flying berries. For comparison, the text-only sample produced with the same prompt and seed
contains different instances of the objects and does not preserve their reference-specific appearance.
The example shows how reference images can preserve subject identity and fine details, while our
main setting uses references to transfer rendering behavior across different content.
A.3.5
CASE STUDY
This section presents selected case studies of the StyleForge extraction process. For each selected
style, we show the reference images together with the final style prompt produced by the visual style
agent. These examples illustrate the connection between visual evidence and the reusable textual
rendering instructions without listing all extracted style prompts.
Case Study: Cyberpunk
[Style References]
[Style Prompt]
Render the requested content in glossy cyberpunk cinematic realism: recognizable
forms rebuilt with polished chrome or black lacquer surfaces, angular segmented
seams, crisp beveled edges, deep teal-black shadow fields, shaped cyan-teal neon
strips; Visual distribution lock: cyan hue families occupy broad visible carrier
regions; large planes become high-chroma carriers, not small accents or white wash;
Dominant chromatic field: cyan colored light islands stay visibly chromatic; high-
value color stays chromatic; Scene carrier map: cyan distribution maps to broad
scene/material planes; Medium construction: foreground objects/background expose
units; Geometry grammar: one grammar across objects/background; Mechanism transfer:
Preserve requested object identities/actions through extracted; Material process
evidence: object/background process evidence; Evidence carriers: process cues on
object contours, internal seams; Apply extracted shape/proportion and edge rules
across subjects, objects, and background; Color carriers: role discipline: colored
material/light anchors stay carrier-bound before shadow material/base; no generic
object color or whole-image tint; primary material/color anchors: cyan teal neon
bands: radiating material bands (#00E1D0/#20F7E3), mirror chrome silver: material
surfaces, object (#C7D8D5/#E1EFEA); secondary light/highlight anchors: warm amber
rim reflection (#FF8A25/#F06A16); shadow material anchors:
gloss black lacquer
(#050807/#111A17), support chromatic carriers without whole-scene fill; carrier
arbitration: selected/accent/local roles stay on small surfaces, bands, patches;
exclude whole subject body, whole clothing mass, whole tabletop, whole background;
do not recolor entire semantic objects; Color/value distribution:
preserve ma-
jor dark/black fields; keep selective light islands readable with visible area;
keep cyan chromatic material fields as repeated carrier-area coverage, not tiny ac-
cents/brown/gray/white wash; dominant saturated fields need broad repeated coverage
on compatible patches/fields before shadows/highlights; selected/accent roles may
repeat on patches/bands, not whole objects; preserve dark-light separation.
26


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Case Study: Folk Art
[Style References]
[Style Prompt]
Render the requested content as saturated impasto folk art: broad cobalt-blue, hot-
orange, and warm-yellow opaque paint fields; Visual distribution lock: blue and
orange-red hue families occupy broad visible carrier regions; large planes become
high-chroma; Dominant chromatic field: blue and orange-red colored light islands
stay visibly chromatic; high-value color stays chromatic; Scene carrier map: dom-
inant hue distribution maps to broad scene/material planes; Medium construction:
foreground objects/background expose units; Geometry grammar: one grammar across ob-
jects/background; Mechanism transfer: Preserve requested object identities/actions
through extracted; Material process evidence: object/background process evidence;
Evidence carriers: process cues on object contours, internal seams; Color carriers:
role discipline:
keep extracted scales; bind roles only to extracted carriers;
material/light/local anchors precede dark/base fields; no generic object color or
whole-image tint; primary material/color anchors: warm yellow slab light: bands,
patches [broad field], hot orange raised paint: bands, patches [selected carrier
only] (#FFD92F/#F6C51E, #F56A18/#E65313); carrier arbitration: selected/accent/lo-
cal roles allowed only on small surfaces, bands, inserts, facets, patches; exclude
whole subject body, whole clothing mass, whole tabletop, whole background;
do
not recolor entire semantic objects; Color/value distribution: preserve dark/black
structure; keep selective light islands readable with visible area; keep blue and
orange-red chromatic material fields as repeated carrier-area coverage, not tiny
accents/brown/gray/white wash; dominant saturated fields need broad repeated cover-
age on compatible patches/fields before shadows/highlights; selected/accent roles
may repeat on patches/bands, not whole objects; preserve dark-light separation;
preserve wide value range with dark anchors and bright islands; base fields: deep
cobalt flat field [broad field] (#0646B8/#07358F).
A.3.6
ADDITIONAL PARETO ANALYSES
To complement the Qwen3-VL-32B-Instruct results in Figure 5, this section reports the corresponding
Pareto analyses obtained with Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct and Qwen3.5-9B. The plots use the same
content-fidelity and style-similarity metrics and the same FLUX.2-Klein settings, allowing the
position of each method to be compared across the three language-model judges. Consistent with
the observation in Figure 5, StyleForge lies near the knee of the Pareto frontier for both backbones,
indicating a favorable balance between content fidelity and style similarity.
8.0
8.8
9.6
VLM-F macro (higher is better)
6.0
7.5
9.0
VLM-S macro (higher is better)
FLUX.2-Klein-4B
Judge: Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct
DSE
RGG
Vanilla SFT
PSO
D-OPSD
StyleForge
8.0
8.8
9.6
VLM-F macro (higher is better)
6.0
7.5
9.0
VLM-S macro (higher is better)
FLUX.2-Klein-9B
Judge: Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct
DSE
RGG
Vanilla SFT
PSO
D-OPSD
StyleForge
8.5
9.0
9.5
10.0
VLM-F macro (higher is better)
4
6
8
VLM-S macro (higher is better)
FLUX.2-Klein-4B
Judge: Qwen3.5-9B
DSE
RGG
Vanilla SFT
PSO
D-OPSD
StyleForge
8.5
9.0
9.5
10.0
VLM-F macro (higher is better)
4
6
8
VLM-S macro (higher is better)
FLUX.2-Klein-9B
Judge: Qwen3.5-9B
DSE
RGG
Vanilla SFT
PSO
D-OPSD
StyleForge
Figure 13: Additional Pareto comparisons using Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct and Qwen3.5-9B as judges.
The two left panels show the FLUX.2-Klein-4B and 9B results for Qwen3-VL-8B-Instruct, while the
two right panels show the corresponding results for Qwen3.5-9B.
27


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
A.3.7
STRUCTURED STYLE EXTRACTION PROMPT
This section presents the structured prompt used by StyleForge for the VLM-facing extraction stage,
which converts multiple reference images into an initial reusable style descriptor. The prompt directs
the vision-language model to identify only shared, content-agnostic rendering traits, organize them
by the enabled style axes, and return a strict JSON descriptor together with a generator-facing style
fragment. Reference-specific subjects, objects, and one-off scene details are explicitly excluded so that
the extracted style can be applied to new content. The returned descriptor is subsequently integrated
with color and luminance statistics and mapped to the rendering, color-and-light, composition, and
reference-content components of the StyleForge state.
StyleForge Structured Style Extraction Prompt
[System Prompt]
You extract only shared style traits across all reference images. Ignore subject
identity and one-off content. Return strict JSON.
[Instruction]
Summarize the intersection of the reference image style across these axes:
- color_palette
- composition
- brushwork
- lighting
- texture
- subject_treatment
- mood
Return JSON with global_summary, per_axis, and rendered_prompt_fragment.
[Required JSON Schema]
{
"global_summary":
"style-only summary shared by all references",
"per_axis":
{"axis_name":
"axis-specific style description for
every enabled axis"},
"rendered_prompt_fragment":
"the final, vivid, generator-facing
style description"
}
[Rendered Prompt Fragment Specification]
Write rendered_prompt_fragment as one vivid, concrete English style paragraph
(about 110 to 180 words) that a text-to-image model can follow with no reference
image. Derive every claim from repeated visual relations across the reference set.
Do not name or describe any concrete subject, object, character, scene, logo, or
identity from the reference images; describe only content-adaptive style rules that
generalize to any future content. Do not force the style into a canned family; only
name a medium or genre when it is visually necessary and supported by the references.
Cover these in order:
1)STYLE IDENTITY: give a compact style identity based on the shared rendering
behavior, not on reference subject matter or a memorized preset label.
2)PALETTE RELATIONS: describe the repeated color system with specific color names,
saturation, value range, dominant/accent/neutral roles, and how color roles be-
have across highlights, shadows, edges, backgrounds, and focal forms. State op-
ponent, analogous, monochrome, pastel, low-key, high-key, multi-hue, or sparse-
accent relations only when shown by the references. Do not reduce the style to
a flat list of colors or impose an unsupported warm/cool relation.
3)SIGNATURE STRUCTURE: identify repeated structural rules: edge hardness, line
presence or absence, shape simplification, region size, pattern repetition, tex-
ture frequency, surface finish, artifacts, grain, blockiness, contour behavior,
spatial layering, and other visible marks. Name observed mechanisms only.
4)LIGHTING AND VALUE ROLES: describe the organization of light, shadow, highlight,
rim/edge light, ambient fill, contrast, bloom/haze, and black/white levels.
Tie color to lighting roles when the references do so, while separating style
lighting from local object color.
28


Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2027
Continuation: StyleForge Structured Style Extraction Prompt
5)RENDERING AND FORM: describe dimensionality, shading model, material abstrac-
tion, texture/grain, edge treatment, detail density, proportions, and how forms
remain readable across new content.
6)MOOD AND DESIGN DISCIPLINE: describe shared emotional tone and restraint/energy
level as visual rules, not story content.
7)AVOID CLAUSE: end with a short “Avoid: ...”
listing only visual looks that
contradict the observed reference relations or common base-model drifts. Keep
it style-only and content-agnostic.
Be concrete and evocative; avoid vague analytical jargon. Use no bullet lists and no
JSON words inside rendered_prompt_fragment. Do not use raw hex colors, numeric
scores, or reference-image subject nouns.
In per_axis, give color_palette,
lighting, texture, and brushwork the same reference-derived relation treatment.
29
