arXiv:2609.08153v1  [cs.LG]  8 Sep 2026
Machine Learning
for Biomedical Imaging
Geodesic-informed Generative Diffusion Model For Topology-preserved
Image Video Generation
Nian Wu 1
, Nivetha Jayakumar 1
, Jiarui Xing 3
, Miaomiao Zhang 1,2
1 University of Virginia, Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Charlottesville, VA, USA
2 University of Virginia, Department of Computer Science, Charlottesville, VA, USA
3 Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA
Abstract
Generative diffusion models have emerged as a class of powerful techniques for various imaging applications, including
but not limited to synthesis, reconstruction, and segmentation. Despite their success, current generative models pose two
key limitations. First, they primarily rely on image intensity and texture information, with limited attention to underlying
object geometry. As a result, they do not guarantee geometric or topological consistency during the generation process,
which is a crucial requirement for high-stakes domains such as computational anatomy, biology, and robotics, where
preserving object structure is critical. Second, existing models fail to explicitly learn or represent shape changes in
the generative process. Such deformation dynamics remain occluded within network parameters; hence leaving the
transformation process uninterpretable and physically uninformed. To address these challenges, we introduce IGG
(Image Generation informed by Geodesic dynamics), a novel framework that integrates topology-preserving geodesic
principles into the diffusion-based generative process. In contrast to conventional methods that operate in image
intensity space, IGG learns and synthesizes diverse samples within geodesic deformation spaces, where geometric object
changes are learned as smooth and invertible smooth mappings from a given template/source image. Specifically,
IGG employs a two-stage architecture: (i) a geodesic-informed image registration (GIR) module that directly encodes
geodesic paths of image deformations into a compact latent space, and (ii) a latent geodesic diffusion (LGD) model
that captures the distribution of these deformation representations, conditioned on a template image and/or text
prompts. We validate IGG on the datasets of plant growth and brain MRI scans. Experimental results demonstrate that
IGG outperforms state-of-the-art image generation and editing models, producing realistic, high-quality images with
preserved topology and fewer artifacts. Furthermore, when used for data augmentation in downstream segmentation
tasks, IGG substantially improves segmentation accuracy, particularly in low-data regimes. Our code is publicly available
at https://github.com/nellie689/IGG.
Keywords
Geodesics, Diffeomorphisms, Generative diffusion model, Neural Operator
Article informations
https://doi.org/10.59275/j.melba.2026-eec1
©2026 Nian Wu, Nivetha Jayakumar, Jiarui Xing, and Miaomiao Zhang. License: CC-BY 4.0
Volume 2026, Received: 2025-11, Published 2026-08
Corresponding author: bsw3ac@virginia.edu
1. Introduction
Recent advances in deep generative modeling have signif-
icantly impacted various image analysis tasks, including
but not limited to image synthesis (Xing et al., 2024; Xie
et al., 2025; Liu et al., 2021; Reinhold et al., 2021), re-
construction (Jayakumar et al., 2023; Tezcan et al., 2018),
translation (Deb et al., 2025; Graf et al., 2023; ¨Ozbey
et al., 2023), and more (Yang et al., 2019; Hossain and
Zhang, 2025). Early research works, such as the varia-
tional autoencoder (VAE), assume a Gaussian prior over
the latent feature space and learn its approximate posterior
through variational inference (Kingma and Welling, 2013).
Although effective, these models can produce overly smooth
or blurry outputs due to their simplified assumptions (Hos-
sain and Zhang, 2025). Another category of generative
440


Geodesic-informed Generative Diffusion Model
modeling is the generative adversarial networks (GANs),
which learn to produce realistic data samples by training
a generator to compete against a discriminator that dis-
tinguishes generated samples from real data (Goodfellow
et al., 2020). However, such models may suffer from mode
collapses, where the generator produces limited diversity of
outputs by ignoring other modes of the true data distribu-
tion (Zhang et al., 2018; Bang and Shim, 2021; Li et al.,
2021). In contrast, diffusion models have recently emerged
as a powerful class of deep generative frameworks that
achieve state-of-the-art performance in modeling complex,
multimodal data distributions and generating photorealistic
images across diverse applications (Mukhopadhyay et al.,
2023; Ho et al., 2020; Deb et al., 2025). These models em-
ploy an implicit generative scheme by learning to reverse a
gradual noising process and iteratively transforming random
noise into fine-grained and high-fidelity image samples (Ho
et al., 2020). Due to these capabilities, diffusion mod-
els have demonstrated remarkable success in synthesizing
highly realistic medical images to address critical challenges
in biomedical research, such as data/label scarcity Sharma
et al. (2023); Jayakumar et al. (2024), missing or incom-
plete modalities Jayakumar et al. (2023); Deb et al. (2025),
and the need for predictive imaging to support disease pro-
gression modeling and clinical decision-making Yoon et al.
(2023); Dao et al. (2024); Zhang et al. (2024).
Despite the success of the aforementioned generative
diffusion models, current approaches face several limitations
that can constrain their practical use in high-stakes domains
requiring high accuracy and fidelity, such as medical imag-
ing, robotics, and autonomous systems. In particular, most
existing diffusion models focus on image intensity and tex-
ture, with little explicit consideration of object geometry
during learning and generation (Nguyen et al., 2024; Li
et al., 2024; Hertz et al., 2022; Kawar et al., 2023). As a
result, they may produce unrealistic or biologically implau-
sible samples, which poses significant risks for downstream
applications where accurate geometric preservation is criti-
cal (Azizi et al., 2023; Jayakumar et al., 2023; Starck et al.,
2025). Recent advances have introduced simple geometric
constraints such as shape localization (Patashnik et al.,
2023; Gupta et al., 2024), boundary conditions (Maz´e and
Ahmed, 2023), and 3D shape priors (Yu et al., 2025; Hu
et al., 2024) in the modeling process.
However, these
approaches lack fine-grained structural preservation that
is highly desirable in sensitive domains, including compu-
tational anatomy and medical imaging. Another impor-
tant yet under-investigated limitation of current diffusion
models is their inability to provide interpretable metrics
or quantitative measures of topological integrity for im-
age objects. Commonly used evaluation metrics include
Fr´echet Inception Distance (FID) for assessing distribution
similarity between real and generated data (Heusel et al.,
2017), Inception Score (IS) for measuring diversity and
quality (Salimans et al., 2016), and Structural Similarity
Index (SSIM) for evaluating pixel-level fidelity (Wang et al.,
2004). While these metrics effectively assess visual quality,
they do not account for the preservation of object geome-
try and topology, raising questions about their validity in
structure-sensitive applications.
In addition, existing diffusion models do not explicitly
capture or represent object shape changes during the gener-
ative process (Ho et al., 2020; Dao et al., 2024; Jayakumar
et al., 2024; Deb et al., 2025; Yoon et al., 2023). Recent
studies have demonstrated that incorporating a geodesic-
constrained deformation process to model object shape
changes within the network can promote physically inter-
pretable deformation trajectories, which enables the regis-
tration framework to capture the underlying dynamics of
shape evolution rather than performing purely data-driven
alignment (Wu and Zhang, 2023, 2024). Moreover, this
geodesic guidance provides an additional source of reg-
ularization in the deformation learning process; thereby
improving the biological plausibility of the registration re-
sults by suppressing artifacts such as folding, tearing, and
crossing in the predicted transformations.
This paper presents an extended work of Image Gen-
eration informed by Geodesic dynamics (IGG) (Wu et al.,
2025), that for the first time generates images by deforming
a given template along random geodesics in deformation
spaces guided by text instructions. In contrast to current
approaches (Brooks et al., 2023; Ho et al., 2022; Kim et al.,
2022), the IGG framework ensures topological consistency
by treating each generated image as a deformed variation
of a template or reference image through learned diffeomor-
phic transformations (also known as a one-to-one, smooth,
and invertible mapping). A dynamic geodesic, producing
natural transformations and providing interpretable metrics
to quantify topological changes, are explicitly learned during
the diffusion process. More specifically, the IGG model com-
prises two key components: a latent representation learning
framework of diffeomorphic transformations informed by
geodesic dynamics, and a latent geometric diffusion model
conditioned on user-defined text instructions. Building on
top of IGG (Wu et al., 2025), our work further
(i) Expand the core method section of IGG by introducing
details of the geodesic-informed image registration mod-
ule, which provides a more principled representation of
topology-preserving transformations.
(ii) Thoroughly investigate the quantitative metrics to as-
sess both the fidelity and topological consistency of the
generated samples.
(iii) Design downstream experiments in the context of image
segmentation to demonstrate an additional clinical utility
441


Wu, Jayakumar, Xing, and Zhang, 2026
Figure 1: An illustrated example of a geodesic path in the
space of brain deformations.
of the generated samples in real-world applications.
We demonstrate the effectiveness of IGG on a diverse set
of real-world datasets, including Komatsuna plant growth
data (Uchiyama et al., 2017) and brain MRIs (LaMontagne
et al., 2019). Experimental results show that IGG signifi-
cantly outperforms state-of-the-art text-guided generative
models (Ho et al., 2022; Yang et al., 2024; Xing et al.,
2025) in producing image samples with well-preserved topo-
logical structures. We further demonstrate the potential
of IGG to enhance deep learning-based downstream tasks
by training brain segmentation networks with synthesized
image-label pairs. It is worth noting that, once trained,
IGG generalizes well across image domains (e.g., variations
in image contrast and scanner types) due to its flexibility
in generating geometric deformations conditioned on any
given template.
2. Background: Geodesics In Deformation
Spaces
In this section, we briefly review the basic concept of
geodesics in deformation spaces, which provides a principled
way to model smooth and natural deformations between
images while preserving structural integrity (Miller et al.,
2002; Beg et al., 2005). With the underlying assumption
that objects of a generic class (e.g., human brains, hearts,
or lungs) are described as deformed variants of a given
template, descriptors of that class arise naturally by de-
forming the template to other images along a geodesic -
a shortest path with locally minimized energy of transfor-
mations (Avants et al., 2008; Joshi et al., 2004). In theory,
every topological property of the deformed template can
be preserved by enforcing the resulting transformations to
be diffeomorphisms, i.e., differentiable, bijective mappings
with differentiable inverses (Beg et al., 2005; Arnold, 1966;
Miller et al., 2002). Violations of such constraints intro-
duce image artifacts, such as tearing, crossing, or passing
through itself.
Let Diff∞(Ω) denote the space of smooth diffeomor-
phisms on a d-dimensional torus domain Ω= Rd/Zd.
The tangent space of diffeomorphisms is the space V =
X∞(TΩ) of smooth vector fields on Ω. Consider a time-
varying velocity field, {vt} : [0, 1] →V , we can generate
diffeomorphisms {ϕt} between pairwise images by solving
dϕt
dt = vt(ϕt), t ∈[0, 1],
(1)
where ϕ0 is the identity map, e, and ϕ1 is the target
transformation.
The geodesic minimizes the functional
R 1
0 (Lvt, vt) dt (Beg
et al., 2005), where L : V →V ∗is a symmetric, positive-
definite differential operator that maps a tangent vec-
tor v(t) ∈V into its dual space as a momentum vec-
tor m(t) ∈V ∗.
We typically write m(t) = Lv(t), or
v(t) = Km(t), with K being an inverse operator of L. In
this paper, we adopt a commonly used Laplacian operator
L = (−α∆+ e)3, where α is a weighting parameter that
controls the smoothness of transformation fields. The (·, ·)
is a dual pairing, which is similar to an inner product be-
tween vectors. An example of geodesic path in the space
of deformations is illustrated in Fig. 1.
According to a well-known geodesic shooting algo-
rithm (Vialard et al., 2012), the minimum of the functional
mentioned above is uniquely determined by solving a Euler-
Poincar´e differential (EPDiff) equation (Vialard et al., 2012;
Younes et al., 2009) with a given initial condition. That
is, for ∀v0 ∈V , a geodesic path t 7→ϕt in the space of
diffeomorphisms can be computed by forward shooting the
EPDiff equation
∂vt
∂t = −K
h
(Dvt)T mt + Dmt vt + mt div vt
i
,
(2)
where D denotes the Jacobian matrix and div is a diver-
gence operator.
Derive geodesics from images.
Consider a source im-
age S and a target image T defined in the domain Ω
(S(x), T(x) : Ω→R).
The optimization of geodesic
transformations can be formulated as minimizing an energy
function over the initial velocity, subject to the EPDiff
equations, i.e.,
E(v0) = (Lv0, v0) + λDist(S(ϕ1), T) s.t. Eq. (1) & (2).
Here, Dist(·,·) is a distance function that measures the
dissimilarity between images, and λ is a positive weighting
parameter. In this paper, we will use the commonly used
sum-of-squared intensity differences (Beg et al., 2005; Wu
et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2017).
442


Geodesic-informed Generative Diffusion Model
3. Method: IGG
This section introduces an extended work of, IGG, that
for the first time generates images in deformation spaces
guided by text instructions (Wu et al., 2025). A dynamic
geodesic, producing natural transformations and providing
interpretable metrics to quantify topological changes, will
be explicitly learned during the generative diffusion process.
Our IGG model consists of two main components: (i) a
geodesic-informed image registration (GIR) network that
directly encodes geodesic paths of image deformations into
a compact latent space; and (ii) a latent geodesic diffusion
(LGD) model that captures the latent distribution of these
deformation representations, conditioned on a template
image and/or user-defined text prompts. An overview of
our model is illustrated in Fig. 2.
3.1 Representation Learning of Geodesic Deformations via
GIR
Consider a given set of N template/source and target im-
age pairs associated with text instructions {sn, fn, Λn}N
n=1.
We introduce a GIR network, based on an autoencoder
architecture, to learn the latent representation of geodesic
transformations, parameterized by velocity fields {vt}, be-
tween a template sn and a target fn. The encoder of
GIR, Eθv, maps input data to the latent representation of a
sequence of velocity fields, {zvt}1
t=0. Inspired by the recent
work NeurEPDiff (Wu and Zhang, 2023), which develops a
neural operator to learn mappings governed by the EPDiff
equation, we incorporate the NeurEPDiff module, Gθr, into
our IGG model to learn geodesics in latent deformation
spaces. More specifically, starting with a latent initial veloc-
ity zv0, the operator Gθr will iteratively propagate it along
the geodesic path, zv0 7−→· · · zvt 7−→· · · zv1, through a
designed latent geodesic evolution module.
Latent Geodesic Evolution.
Similar to (Wu and Zhang,
2023, 2024), we leverage neural operators as surrogate
models to approximate the mapping function of the EPDiff
equation during network training. In particular, we em-
ploy a multilayer neural network with J hidden layers to
simulate the geodesic mapping function (EPDiff) from zvt
to zvt+1. For notational simplicity, we let uj denote the
input of the j-th hidden layer and uj+1 its output, where
j ∈{1, · · · , J}. At each hidden layer, we combine a local
linear transformation W j with a global convolutional ker-
nel Hj, enabling the extraction of both local and global
representations. A nonlinear activation function, σ(·), is
defined as a Gaussian Error Linear Unit (GeLU) (Hendrycks
and Gimpel, 2016) with a smoothing operator K to en-
sure continuity and smoothness in the output signal, i.e.,
σ(·) := K(GeLU(·)). Formally, we update uj+1 ←uj by
uj+1 := σ(W juj + Hj ∗uj),
where ∗represents a convolution operator. Note that, for
computational efficiency, the global convolution is imple-
mented as an element-wise multiplication in the Fourier
domain, followed by an inverse transform back to the spatial
domain.
Finally, the geodesic evolution of the latent velocity
from zvt to zvt+1 at each time point t can be defined as
zvt+1 := σ(W J, HJ) ◦· · · ◦σ(W 2, H2) ◦σ(W 1, H1, zvt),
where ◦denotes the composition of network operations.
The decoder, Dθv, then projects these latent representations
back to the full-dimensional image space to produce a
geodesic flow of velocity fields, v0 7−→· · · vt 7−→· · · v1.
The corresponding deformations, ϕ0 7−→· · · ϕt 7−→· · · ϕ1
are then generated according to Eq. 1. For simplicity of
notation, we define Φ ∆= {ϕt}1
t=0 in the following sections.
The network loss combines contributions from an un-
supervised registration loss, and a geodesic loss guided
by numerical solutions of the EPDiff equation obtained
via Euler integration. These solutions are represented as
{ˆvn
t }, t ∈(0, 1] with a simultaneously learned initial velocity
ˆvn
0 . To simplify the notation, we define ˆvn ≜{ˆvn
t } before
formulating the loss function as
L(θv, θr) =
N
X
n=1
λ ∥(sn(ϕn
1(θv)) −fn∥2
2
+ 1
2(Lvn
0 (θv), vn
0 (θv))
+ η ∥Dθv(Gθr(zv0)) −ˆvn∥2
2
+ Reg(θr, θv),
s.t. Eq. (1),
(3)
where λ and η are positive weighting parameters to balance
the image matching term and the geodesic loss, and Reg(·)
is a network regularization.
3.2 Latent Geodesic Diffusion Model
With a pre-trained GIR network, we are now ready to in-
troduce a latent geodesic diffusion module to simulate the
distribution of latent geodesic flows for image transforma-
tions, {zn
vt}1
t=0. To simplify the notation, we define zn :=
{zn
vt}1
t=0 for the n-th subject, where all time-dependent
components {zn
vt} are concatenated to form a unified repre-
sentation. In contrast to previous approaches that perform
the diffusion process in the image space (Brooks et al.,
2023; Ho et al., 2022; Kim et al., 2022), our latent geomet-
ric diffusion operates in the deformation space. Specifically,
our diffusion process directly samples geodesics of topology-
preserving diffeomorphic transformations, which are then
applied to deform the input template to generate the final
output.
443


Wu, Jayakumar, Xing, and Zhang, 2026
Figure 2: An overview of our IGG framework with two key components: (i) GIR to learn the latent representations of
geodesic transformations from paired template and target images; and (ii) LGD to generate a time-sequence
of image transformations over time, conditioned on text instructions.
3.2.1 Forward diffusion in geodesic deformation spaces.
Following the principles of denoising diffusion probabilistic
models (DDPM) (Ho et al., 2020) and video diffusion
models (Ho et al., 2022), our forward diffusion is fixed to
a Markov chain that progressively adds noise, ϵ ∼N(0, I),
to the initial latent geodesic representations zn
0 ∼p(z0),
with a number of T steps. Mathematically, the forward
diffusion process can be formulated as
q(zn
τ | zn
τ−1) := N

zn
τ ;
p
1 −βτ zn
τ−1, βτI

,
where τ ∈[1, · · · , T] and βτ is a time-dependent variance
schedule of scalar values ∈(0, 0.999] used to parameterize
the probabilistic transitions.
Alternatively, the forward
diffusion process of sampling zτ at an arbitrary timestep τ
can be formulated in closed form using
q(zn
τ |zn
0 ) = N(zn
τ ; √¯ατzn
0 , (1 −¯ατ)I),
zn
τ = √¯ατzn
0 + √1 −¯ατϵ,
(4)
where ατ = 1 −βτ and ¯ατ = Qτ
s=1 αs, where s ∈
[1, · · · , τ].
3.2.2 Reverse diffusion with geometric conditioning.
Similar to Ho et al. (2020), the reverse diffusion process iter-
atively denoises the latent variable of the diffusion model zn
τ
over τ steps, given template-specific conditions. We intro-
duce a novel geometric conditioning in the latent geodesic
space, which enables the model to adapt more effectively
to specific contexts; hence improving its generative perfor-
mance based on observed template images and provided
text instructions. More specifically, our geometric condition-
ing is achieved by concatenating two components: image
embedding in the form of downsampled template image
gradient, {∇sn} and the geodesic deformation embedding,
represented by the latent velocity fields, {zn
τ }. Following
a similar principle as seen in (Ho et al., 2020), we sam-
ple the denoised latent geodesic flow of velocity fields zn
0 ,
starting from the noisy state zn
τ at the τ-th time-step and
progressively remove noise to reconstruct the original latent
representation. This process is mathematically expressed
as
pθ(zn
τ−1|zn
τ , ∇sn, Λn, τ) =
N(zn
τ−1; µθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, Λn, τ), Σθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, Λn, τ)),
where µθ and Σθ represent the parameterized mean
and variance of the approximated Gaussian distribution
at each time step of the reverse diffusion process (Ho
et al., 2022) . In our experiments, we employ a 3D UNet
architecture (Ronneberger et al., 2015) Zθ as the deep
predictive model, which predicts the noise to be removed
444


Geodesic-informed Generative Diffusion Model
from zn
τ to reconstruct zn
τ−1 using the equation:
zn
τ−1 =
1
√ατ
(zn
τ −1 −ατ
√1 −¯ατ
Zθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, Λn, τ)) + σtI,
(5)
where I ∼N(0, I) and σt = ˜βt = 1−¯αt−1
1−¯αt
· βt.
The text embedding, encoded using a pre-trained CLIP
text encoder (Radford et al., 2021), {Λn} is integrated
into this network via cross-attention. With an optimized
denoising network Zθ, the iterative sampling using Eq 5
yields a clean geodesic deformation embedding zn
0 .
The network loss of our proposed latent geodesic diffu-
sion module is formulated as
Lθ = 1
N
N
X
n=1
||ϵn
τ −Zθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, Λn, τ)||2
2+reg(θ), τ ∈U[1, T],
(6)
where reg(·) is a regularization of the network parameter θ,
U denotes a uniform distribution and T is the total number
of diffusion timesteps.
Classifier-free guidance. To balance the trade-off
between sample quality and diversity of velocity fields in
the latent space after training, we optimize the combination
of conditional and unconditional diffusion models. This is
achieved by leveraging image-conditioned guidance with
scale δI, text-conditioned guidance with scale δT, and a
null-condition ∅.
Following similar principles from the
classifier-free guidance approach (Ho and Salimans, 2022),
we first jointly train a conditional and an unconditional IGG
model. The resulting score estimates from these models
are then combined to predict the noise ˆZ as
ˆZθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, Λn, τ)
= Zθ(zn
τ , ∅, ∅, τ)
+δI · [Zθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, ∅, τ) −Zθ(zn
τ , ∅, ∅, τ)]
+δT · [Zθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, Λn, τ) −Zθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, ∅, τ)]
= (1 −δI) · Zθ(zn
τ , ∅, ∅, τ)
+(δI −δT) · Zθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, ∅, τ)
+δT · Zθ(zn
τ , ∇sn, Λn, τ).
3.3 Network Optimization
We first optimize the loss of representation learning of
geodesic transformations (Eq. (3)), followed by the latent
geodesic diffusion model (Eq. (6)). The training process of
IGG is summarized in Alg. 1. During testing, the procedure
for sampling the geodesic of latent velocity fields, condi-
tioned on a given template image and text instructions, is
outlined in Alg. 2.
Algorithm 1 IGG Training
Input: Data {sn, fn, Λn}Ntrain
n=1
1: Pretrain Eθv, Eθr, Dθv via Eq. (3)
2: repeat
3:
Initial latent geodesic representations, zn
0
←
Gθr

Eθv(sn, fn)

,
4:
Sample τ ∼U(1, T), ϵ ∼N(0, I),
5:
Sample zn
τ at τ by zn
τ ←q(zn
τ | zn
0 ) via Eq. (4),
6:
Optimize Zθ by taking a gradient descent step on
Eq. (6).
7: until converged
Algorithm 2 IGG Sampling
Input: Data {sn, Λn}Ntest
n=1
Output: Geodesic deformations Φn
1: Initialize zn
T ∼N(0, I)
2: for τ = T, . . . , 1 do
3:
ˆzn
τ−1 ←pθ

zn
τ−1 | zn
τ , ∇sn, Λn, τ

via Eq. (5),
4: end for
5: {ˆvn} ←Dθv(ˆzn
0 ),
6: Φn ←{ˆvn} via Eq. (1),
7: return Φn
4. Experimental Evaluation
We evaluate the proposed IGG framework using a diverse set
of real-world image datasets that capture deformable shape
changes over time. We first assess the quality of the learned
latent representations of geodesics by comparing them to
numerical solutions of the EPDiff equation obtained via
Euler integration.
Next, we evaluate the quality of the generated images
deformed by the sampled geodesics guided by given text in-
structions. These results are compared with state-of-the-art
generative models that synthesize image sequences/videos
with publicly available training code or fine-tuning options,
including the video diffusion model (VDM) (Ho et al., 2022),
CogVideoX (Yang et al., 2024), and DynamiCrafter (Xing
et al., 2025). Note that all baselines are trained using se-
quences of deformed images generated along the geodesic
transformations derived from the numerical solutions of
EPDiff equation. This approach ensures that the results
are independent of the learned geodesics predicted by the
first module of the IGG framework, providing a consistent
and unbiased evaluation.
Finally, to further assess the quality of the generated
samples and demonstrate their clinical utility in real-world
applications, we design a downstream task in the context
of brain MRI segmentation. More specifically, we use the
synthesized image samples as augmentation data by pairing
each transformed image with its corresponding segmenta-
445


Wu, Jayakumar, Xing, and Zhang, 2026
tion label, both generated through the learned deformation
fields applied to existing images and labels. We conduct
experiments using a diverse set of widely used segmentation
architectures, including U-Net (Ronneberger et al., 2015),
TransUNet (Chen et al., 2021), and Attention U-Net (At-
tUNet) (Oktay et al., 2018), under limited training data
conditions.
4.1 Dataset
Komatsuna plant.
We include 300 frames of RGB-D
label-maps representing five Komatsuna plants from the
publicly available data repository (Uchiyama et al., 2017).
The label maps cover different leaves that emerge from the
bud and grow in size over time, where the plant growth was
monitored between 228-236 hours. All data frames were
resampled to to 1282 and pre-aligned with affine transfor-
mations.
Longitudinal brain MRI. We include a total of 2618
T1-weighted longitudinal (time-series) brain MRIs sourced
from the Open Access Series of Imaging Studies (OASIS-
3) dataset (LaMontagne et al., 2019). This experiment
aims to validate our method using longitudinal data that
includes scans at varying time intervals for individuals span-
ning both healthy subjects and Alzheimer’s diseases (AD),
aged 60-90. Given the scenario that many existing image
generation/editing methods with text instructions focus
on 2D natural images (Brooks et al., 2023; Meng et al.,
2021), we specifically utilize 2D scans derived from this 3D
brain data for comparison with state-of-the-art baselines.
All MRIs undergo pre-processing, including resizing to 1282,
with isotropic voxels of 1mm2, skull-stripping, intensity nor-
malization, bias field correction, and pre-alignment using
affine transformations.
Text instructions. Our text condition consists of a de-
scription of the template image, followed by details of the
specific edits or progressions applied to it. For brain MRIs,
this includes biological variables such as age, sex, and gen-
der. In contrast, for plants, it primarily focuses on the
growth timeline. All information is sourced directly from
the original dataset available in the data repository.
4.2 Experimental Design and Implementation Details
Evaluate learned latent representations of geodesics
via GIR. We evaluate GIR’s ability to predict geodesic dy-
namics by comparing the learned geodesics with numerical
solutions to the EPDiff equation using Euler integration.
The assessment focuses on errors in velocity fields, transfor-
mations, and deformed images between the two approaches.
Quantitative metrics, such as the mean absolute error of
velocity fields, are computed at each time integration step.
Evaluate generated samples. We compare the quality
of samples generated by IGG with three baseline models:
VDM (Ho et al., 2022), CogVideoX (Yang et al., 2024), and
DynamiCrafter (Xing et al., 2025)). In particular, we first
assess individual synthesized images at each time step us-
ing standard image synthesis metrics, including the Fr´echet
Inception Distance (FID) (Heusel et al., 2017) and Ker-
nel Inception Distance (KID) (Bi´nkowski et al., 2018) to
measure the distributional similarity between generated and
real images. Additionally, we use the Structural Similarity
Index (SSIM) (Wang et al., 2004) to evaluate structural,
contrast, and luminance similarities. We then evaluate the
continuity and smoothness of generated video sequences by
computing the Fr´echet Video Distance (FVD) (Unterthiner
et al., 2018) and providing qualitative visual comparisons.
Finally, we assess the perceptual quality of the generated
samples using the Inception Score (IS) (Salimans et al.,
2016).
Evaluate the preservation of object geometry and
topology. To demonstrate the efficiency of our IGG model
in preserving fine-grained geometric structure and topology,
we first generate image sequences by deforming a template
image using the sampled geodesic flow of deformations pro-
duced by IGG and compare these results with all baseline
models. Secondly, we present the corresponding determi-
nant of the Jacobian (DetJac) maps for the deformations.
The DetJac values reveal important patterns of volume
change: a value of 1 indicates no volume change, DetJac
< 1 reflects volume shrinkage, and DetJac > 1 implies
volume expansion. A DetJac value below zero indicates
artifacts or singularities in the transformation field, high-
lighting a failure to maintain the topological integrity. Note
that only our IGG model enables such a metric to quantify
the topological changes in the generated samples.
Evaluate reliability of model predictions. We evaluate
the reliability and confidence of IGG in learning the geodesic
deformations of geometric shapes over time by comput-
ing pixel-wise mean and standard deviation for individual
sampled image sequences along the geodesic path. We
visualize confidence intervals to highlight regions with 95%
certainty in growth patterns. These intervals are defined by
the mean of 1000 generated samples with pixel-wise bounds
that are two standard deviations above and below the mean.
Demonstrate utility of generated samples in down-
stream segmentation tasks. We evaluate the effective-
ness of IGG generated images by using them as augmented
data for segmentation tasks under conditions of limited
number of training samples. We then compare the perfor-
mance of segmentation models trained with and without our
446


Geodesic-informed Generative Diffusion Model
synthesized augmented data, considering dataset augmen-
tations of 2× and 4× the size of the original dataset. The
segmentation accuracy is assessed using the dice score (Dice,
1945), both averaged across all anatomical regions and sep-
arately for different structures. To highlight the flexibility
of IGG in generating new data, we evaluate augmentation
performance on OASIS-3 (LaMontagne et al., 2019) and
OASIS-1 (Marcus et al., 2007) datasets independently, not-
ing that our model is trained exclusively on OASIS-3. This
setup allows us to examine the generalization capability of
the synthesized data to an unseen dataset while quantifying
its impact on segmentation performance.
Parameter Setting. We split all datasets into 80%, 10%,
and 10% for training, validation, and testing. All experi-
ments are conducted on NVIDIA A100 GPUs. For training
the autoencoder for geodesic learning, we alternatively up-
date the encoder-decoder and the latent geodesic neural
operator, and finally jointly train both components for 2000
epochs per stage. We set the weight decay as 1e−4, batch
size as 64, and a learning rate as 5e−4. For training the
latent geodesic diffusion model, we set the learning rate
as 1e−4, the number of epochs as 6000, batch size as 36,
and diffusion steps as 500. All models are trained using the
Adam optimizer (Kingma and Ba, 2014).
4.3 Experimental Results
The left panel of Fig. 3 visualizes the predicted transfor-
mations, velocity fields, and deformed images from IGG’s
geodesic-informed registration network (GIR), compared
with numerical solutions to the EPDiff equation (Eq. (2)).
These methods show a high degree of similarity. The right
panel of Fig. 3 presents quantitative results of the absolute
per-pixel error, computed between the velocity field ob-
tained from the numerical solution of the EPDiff equation
and the velocity field predicted by the GIR module at each
time step. These results collectively highlight GIR’s ability
to effectively learn geodesic mapping functions comparable
to real numerical solutions.
We also report the additional computational overhead
introduced by the GIR, which primarily comes from the
t
t
t
Source
t
Target
Source
Target
EPDiff
GIR
Figure 3: Comparison of predicted geodesics by GIR (the first sub-module of IGG) vs. real numerical solutions from the
EPDiff equation. Left: Visualization of predicted deformed images, deformations, and velocities along time.
Right: Mean absolute error of predicted velocities over time compared to numerical integration of EPDiff.
447


Wu, Jayakumar, Xing, and Zhang, 2026
Template
Target
Template
Target
IGG
t
VDM
  Cog
VideoX
 Dynami
 Crafter 
IGG
VDM
0.1
1.0
5.0
  Cog
VideoX
Dynami
Crafter
Text :given is a plant at 200 hours. What would the plant look like at 208 hours?
Image of a 70 years old male who is cognitively normal. How will it be at the age of 77 years?
DetJac 
of IGG
DetJac 
of IGG
Figure 4: A comparison of images generated by IGG (with corresponding DetJac) against all baseline models across
different time frames. Given an input template image and text instructions, all models generate samples of
target images. The ground truth ”target” along with input template images are provided on the left side of
the panel for reference.
448


Geodesic-informed Generative Diffusion Model
latent neural operator used to approximate the EPDiff
equation (Eq. (2)). In practice, in our experiments on 1282
brain images, the training time per epoch is approximately
13.10s for GIR, compared to 4.81s for a standard registration
model with numerical solutions to the EPDiff Hinkle et al.
(2018). The corresponding inference times are 0.01s vs.
0.004s, respectively.
Fig. 4 compares the generated images from our model
IGG (along with the associated DetJac maps of the deforma-
tions) with the baseline generative models. The visualized
images and DetJac values of IGG suggest that our model
effectively preserves the topological structure of objects
within the generated images with well-captured progres-
sion of geometric shape changes over time. In contrast,
samples generated by the baselines fail to maintain the
geometric integrity of various structures. For instance, in
plant growth images, the leaves appear to merge or overlap
unnaturally, disrupting their biological topology. Similarly,
the baselines inaccurately predict parts of the ventricles,
resulting in regions that do not correspond to the origi-
nal brain structure. It is worth noting that the baseline
methods perform diffusion directly in the image intensity
space, learning the distribution of raw pixel values. During
sampling, they generate pixel intensities through iterative
denoising, which can lead to blurring (or noisy) artifacts
observed in diffusion models operating in pixel space. In
contrast, our method performs diffusion in the deformation
space, generating velocity or deformation fields that are
subsequently applied to a template image to synthesize new
image sequences. By modeling structural variation through
geometric transformations rather than pixel-wise genera-
tion, our approach better preserves sharp and anatomically
coherent structures.
Tab. 1 reports the evaluation metrics of sample quality
and diversity for the generated images from our model IGG
and the baselines. While all models achieve similar IS, IGG
shows significantly lower FVD, FID, and KID scores, and
higher SSIM scores. This indicates that while all models
generate diverse images (leading to a good IS), the base-
lines lack realistic features or proper distribution alignment
with real images. The observation of IGG achieving approx-
imately 10 times better scores demonstrates its ability to
generate more realistic images.
Fig. 5 visualizes examples of confidence maps of plant
growth and brain progression images generated from IGG.
It suggests that our model effectively captures the growth
pattern of plants over time, primarily focusing on the bound-
aries of the leaves. The confidence maps of brain images
highlight expanding patterns in ventricles, demonstrating
the model’s ability to capture dynamic changes over time.
Fig. 6 presents the improvement in average dice scores
for different segmentation models trained with varying
dataset configurations. The baseline corresponds to training
on the original limited dataset. It shows that with gradually
increasing the amount of augmented data generated by
IGG from 2× to 4× the size of the original training set, we
can consistently obtain better segmentation performance
with higher dice scores across all models. These results
demonstrate that the generated image-label pairs are able
to effectively augment real data, particularly under limited-
label conditions. While the improvements on OASIS-1 (with
maximal +5.1%) are smaller than those on OASIS-3 (with
maximal +11.0%), they remain consistent, highlighting the
generalizability of our model across datasets.
Fig. 7 further reports detailed dice scores across differ-
ent anatomical structures when using IGG’s predictions as
augmented data on both OASIS-3 and OASIS-1 datasets.
Fig. 8 visualizes representative segmentation maps pre-
dicted by a trained U-Net (Ronneberger et al., 2015) in
different configurations of the training dataset.
When
trained on a limited dataset, and the model produces er-
rors in certain anatomical structures, whereas training with
augmented data yields predictions that more closely match
the ground truth. These results further confirm the effec-
tiveness of incorporating our generated samples, especially
under limited-data conditions.
Table 1: A comparison of performance metrics across all methods for various datasets.
Dataset
Model
FVD ↓
FID ↓
KID ↓
SSIM ↑
IS ↑
Plant
IGG
48.29
9.23
0.007 ± 0.02
0.98 ± 0.02
1.06 ± 1.2%
VDM (Ho et al., 2022)
357.56
71.79
0.23 ± 0.03
0.23 ± 0.10
1.05 ± 1.0%
CogVideoX (Yang et al., 2024)
471.49
153.93
0.63 ± 0.07
0.69 ± 0.19
1.05 ± 0.6%
DynamiCrafter (Xing et al., 2025)
466.70
80.78
0.41 ± 0.04
0.89 ± 0.04
1.03 ± 0.3%
Brain
IGG
26.39
6.23
0.006 ± 0.008
0.97 ± 0.03
1.02 ± 0.08%
VDM (Ho et al., 2022)
247.84
69.23
0.46 ± 0.03
0.89 ± 0.02
1.02 ± 0.07%
CogVideoX (Yang et al., 2024)
302.20
114.50
0.46 ± 0.04
0.69 ± 0.27
1.06 ± 2.8%
DynamiCrafter (Xing et al., 2025)
288.62
142.40
1.05 ± 0.03
0.88 ± 0.03
1.03 ± 0.20%
449


Wu, Jayakumar, Xing, and Zhang, 2026
1.0
0.0
1.0
0
UB
LB 
CI 
Template
UB
LB 
CI 
Template
t
Given is a plant at 164 hours. What would the plant look like at  172 hours? 
Image of a 72 years old female who is cognitively normal. How will it be at t
he age of 83 years? 
Figure 5: Top: Input template images with text instructions. Bottom: Confidence maps illustrating the lower bounds
(LB), upper bounds (UB), and confidence intervals (CI), which represent regions representing 95% of ideal
growth patterns, based on 1000 samples generated by our IGG model across different time frames.
5. Conclusion & Discussion
This paper presents an extended work, IGG (Wu et al.,
2025), a geodesic-informed generative diffusion model for
topology-preserved image video generation. In contrast to
existing generative models that focus primarily on manipu-
lating image intensity and texture, IGG explicitly learns the
underlying latent distribution of geodesic-informed deforma-
450


Geodesic-informed Generative Diffusion Model
OASIS1
OASIS3
Dice Score 
2X
4X
2X
4X
2X
4X
2X
4X
2X
4X
2X
4X
Figure 6: The improvement in average dice scores achieved by different segmentation models when trained with varying
training dataset configurations. Baseline denotes training with the original limited dataset, while 2× and 4×
correspond to augmentations of 2 times and 4 times the size of the original dataset, respectively.
Base
OASIS3
2X
4X
OASIS1
Figure 7: A comparison of average dice scores across different anatomical structures under varying training dataset
configurations. Left to right: base: training with the original limited dataset, and 2× and 4× correspond to
augmented sizes of the original dataset. Top to bottom: results on the OASIS-3 vs. OASIS-1.
451


Wu, Jayakumar, Xing, and Zhang, 2026
MRI Scan
Ground Truth 
Predicted Base
Predicted 2x
Predicted 4x
OASIS-3
OASIS-3
OASIS-1
OASIS-1
Figure 8: Examples of segmentation results on brain MRIs across different anatomical structures under varying training
dataset configurations. Left to right: original MRI scans, ground truth labels, predicted labels from a model
trained on the original limited dataset, and predicted labels from models trained with 2× and 4× the size of
the original dataset. Top to bottom: results on the OASIS-3 vs. OASIS-1.
tions from images, enabling the synthesis of diverse samples
within geodesic deformation spaces. Our work is the first
generative model to operate on natural and interpretable
image transformations: it not only captures shape-changing
processes during generation, but also provides quantitative
metrics to assess topological consistency in the synthe-
sized samples. The key contributions of IGG include (i) a
geodesic-informed registration network that learns latent
representations of time-dependent diffeomorphic transfor-
mations, enabling accurate modeling of complex shape
dynamics; and (ii) a latent geometric diffusion model that
captures sequential deformation features conditioned on
text inputs and template images, allowing controlled and
semantically meaningful generation. Our experimental re-
sults demonstrate that IGG significantly improves sample
fidelity and diversity compared to state-of-the-art methods.
Additionally, downstream segmentation experiments show
substantial performance gains when using IGG-generated
samples as data augmentation, particularly in low-data
regimes.
Our proposed IGG model advances image generation by
integrating geodesic principles, providing tools for topology
assessment, and establishing a framework for synthesizing
anatomically consistent image samples. We acknowledge
that the fidelity of the synthesized data from our IGG
model is inherently dependent on the accuracy of the un-
derlying registration. When registration errors are large, the
quality of the synthesized results may be correspondingly
limited. This dependency reflects a critical assumption
of our framework that anatomically meaningful correspon-
452


Geodesic-informed Generative Diffusion Model
dences can be reliably established. Our topological prior is
most effective in applications where anatomical structures
are expected to preserve diffeomorphic consistency. How-
ever, in practical settings, imaging noise, pathology-induced
appearance changes, or other non-diffeomorphic structural
changes may violate this assumption. In such cases, strict
topology preservation may not fully capture the underlying
anatomical variability. Our future work will be investigated
to combine IGG’s strength in learning deformation fields
with the modeling of image texture distributions, which
will enable the development of more powerful and realistic
generative models that capture both structural and appear-
ance variations. Other future research will focus on several
potential directions in extending IGG to handle 4D data
(3D + time) to model dynamic longitudinal anatomical
changes, such as cardiac motion or brain changes over time.
These directions aim to further enhance the clinical and
scientific utility of generative modeling in medical imaging.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by NSF CAREER Grant 2239977.
Ethical Standards
The work follows appropriate ethical standards in conduct-
ing research and writing the manuscript, following all appli-
cable laws and regulations regarding treatment of animals
or human subjects.
Conflicts of Interest
We declare we do not have conflicts of interest.
Data availability
The Brain MRIs used in training and testing in this paper are
from the Open Access Series of Imaging Studies (OASIS-3)
dataset (LaMontagne et al., 2019), which are readily acces-
sible and user-friendly. Readers interested in evaluating the
accuracy of the method can access and utilize the publicly
available datasets. The code for this study is also publicly
available at https://github.com/nellie689/IGG.
References
Vladimir Arnold.
Sur la g´eom´etrie diff´erentielle des
groupes de lie de dimension infinie et ses applications
`a l’hydrodynamique des fluides parfaits. In Annales de
l’institut Fourier, volume 16, pages 319–361, 1966.
Brian B Avants, Charles L Epstein, Murray Grossman, and
James C Gee.
Symmetric diffeomorphic image regis-
tration with cross-correlation: evaluating automated la-
beling of elderly and neurodegenerative brain. Medical
image analysis, 12(1):26–41, 2008.
Shekoofeh Azizi, Simon Kornblith, Chitwan Saharia, Mo-
hammad Norouzi, and David J Fleet. Synthetic data
from diffusion models improves imagenet classification.
arXiv:2304.08466, 2023.
Duhyeon Bang and Hyunjung Shim. Mggan: Solving mode
collapse using manifold-guided training. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer
vision, pages 2347–2356, 2021.
Mirza Faisal Beg, Michael I Miller, Alain Trouv´e, and Lau-
rent Younes. Computing large deformation metric map-
pings via geodesic flows of diffeomorphisms. International
journal of computer vision, 61(2):139–157, 2005.
Miko laj Bi´nkowski, Danica J Sutherland, Michael Ar-
bel, and Arthur Gretton.
Demystifying mmd gans.
arXiv:1801.01401, 2018.
Tim Brooks, Aleksander Holynski, and Alexei A Efros. In-
structpix2pix: Learning to follow image editing instruc-
tions. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 18392–
18402, 2023.
Jieneng Chen, Yongyi Lu, Qihang Yu, Xiangde Luo, Ehsan
Adeli, Yan Wang, Le Lu, Alan L Yuille, and Yuyin Zhou.
Transunet: Transformers make strong encoders for medi-
cal image segmentation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.04306,
2021.
Duy-Phuong Dao, Hyung-Jeong Yang, and Jahae Kim. Con-
ditional diffusion model for longitudinal medical image
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.05860, 2024.
Swakshar Deb, Nian Wu, Frederick H Epstein, and Miao-
miao Zhang. Unsupervised cardiac video translation via
motion feature guided diffusion model. In International
Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer-
Assisted Intervention, pages 648–658. Springer, 2025.
Lee R Dice. Measures of the amount of ecologic association
between species. Ecology, 26(3):297–302, 1945.
Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing
Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair, Aaron Courville,
and Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial networks.
Communications of the ACM, 63(11):139–144, 2020.
Robert Graf, Joachim Schmitt, Sarah Schlaeger, Hen-
drik Kristian M¨oller, Vasiliki Sideri-Lampretsa, Anjany
453


Wu, Jayakumar, Xing, and Zhang, 2026
Sekuboyina, Sandro Manuel Krieg, Benedikt Wiestler,
Bjoern Menze, Daniel Rueckert, et al. Denoising diffusion-
based mri to ct image translation enables automated
spinal segmentation. European Radiology Experimental,
7(1):70, 2023.
Saumya Gupta,
Dimitris Samaras,
and Chao Chen.
Topodiffusionnet:
A topology-aware diffusion model.
arXiv:2410.16646, 2024.
Dan Hendrycks and Kevin Gimpel. Gaussian error linear
units (gelus). arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.08415, 2016.
Amir Hertz, Ron Mokady, Jay Tenenbaum, Kfir Aberman,
Yael Pritch, and Daniel Cohen-Or. Prompt-to-prompt
image editing with cross attention control, 2022.
Martin Heusel, Hubert Ramsauer, Thomas Unterthiner,
Bernhard Nessler, and Sepp Hochreiter. Gans trained by
a two time-scale update rule converge to a local nash
equilibrium. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 30, 2017.
J. Hinkle, D. Womble, and H.J.d Yoon. Diffeomorphic
autoencoders for LDDMM atlas building. In Medical
Imaging with Deep Learning, 2018.
Jonathan Ho and Tim Salimans. Classifier-free diffusion
guidance. arXiv:2207.12598, 2022.
Jonathan Ho, Ajay Jain, and Pieter Abbeel. Denoising diffu-
sion probabilistic models. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 33:6840–6851, 2020.
Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, Alexey Gritsenko, William
Chan, Mohammad Norouzi, and David J Fleet. Video
diffusion models. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, 35:8633–8646, 2022.
Tonmoy Hossain and Miaomiao Zhang. Mgaug: Multi-
modal geometric augmentation in latent spaces of image
deformations. Medical Image Analysis, 102:103540, 2025.
Jiangbei Hu, Ben Fei, Baixin Xu, Fei Hou, Weidong
Yang, Shengfa Wang, Na Lei, Chen Qian, and Ying He.
Topology-aware latent diffusion for 3d shape generation.
arXiv:2401.17603, 2024.
Nivetha Jayakumar, Tonmoy Hossain, and Miaomiao Zhang.
Sadir: shape-aware diffusion models for 3d image recon-
struction. In International workshop on shape in medical
imaging, pages 287–300. Springer, 2023.
Nivetha Jayakumar, Srivardhan Reddy Gadila, Tonmoy Hos-
sain, Yangfeng Ji, and Miaomiao Zhang. Tpie: Topology-
preserved image editing with text instructions. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2411.16714, 2024.
Sarang Joshi, Brad Davis, Matthieu Jomier, and Guido
Gerig.
Unbiased diffeomorphic atlas construction for
computational anatomy. NeuroImage, 23:S151–S160,
2004.
Bahjat Kawar, Shiran Zada, Oran Lang, Omer Tov, Hui-
wen Chang, Tali Dekel, Inbar Mosseri, and Michal Irani.
Imagic: Text-based real image editing with diffusion
models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages
6007–6017, 2023.
Boah Kim, Inhwa Han, and Jong Chul Ye. Diffusemorph:
Unsupervised deformable image registration using dif-
fusion model. In Computer Vision–ECCV 2022: 17th
European Conference, Tel Aviv, Israel, October 23–27,
2022, Proceedings, Part XXXI, pages 347–364. Springer,
2022.
Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for
stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980,
2014.
Diederik P Kingma and Max Welling. Auto-encoding varia-
tional bayes. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6114, 2013.
Pamela J LaMontagne, Tammie LS Benzinger, John C
Morris, Sarah Keefe, Russ Hornbeck, Chengjie Xiong,
Elizabeth Grant, Jason Hassenstab, Krista Moulder, An-
drei G Vlassenko, et al. Oasis-3: longitudinal neuroimag-
ing, clinical, and cognitive dataset for normal aging and
alzheimer disease. medrxiv, pages 2019–12, 2019.
Dongxu Li, Junnan Li, and Steven Hoi.
Blip-diffusion:
Pre-trained subject representation for controllable text-
to-image generation and editing. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
Wei Li, Li Fan, Zhenyu Wang, Chao Ma, and Xiaohui
Cui. Tackling mode collapse in multi-generator gans with
orthogonal vectors. Pattern Recognition, 110:107646,
2021.
Xiaofeng Liu, Fangxu Xing, Maureen Stone, Jiachen Zhuo,
Timothy Reese, Jerry L Prince, Georges El Fakhri,
and Jonghye Woo. Generative self-training for cross-
domain unsupervised tagged-to-cine mri synthesis. In
International Conference on Medical Image Comput-
ing and Computer-Assisted Intervention, pages 138–148.
Springer, 2021.
Daniel S Marcus, Tracy H Wang, Jamie Parker, John G
Csernansky, John C Morris, and Randy L Buckner. Open
access series of imaging studies (oasis): cross-sectional
mri data in young, middle aged, nondemented, and de-
mented older adults. Journal of cognitive neuroscience,
19(9):1498–1507, 2007.
454


Geodesic-informed Generative Diffusion Model
Franc¸ois Maz´e and Faez Ahmed. Diffusion models beat
gans on topology optimization. In Proceedings of the
AAAI conference on artificial intelligence, volume 37,
pages 9108–9116, 2023.
Chenlin Meng, Yutong He, Yang Song, Jiaming Song, Jiajun
Wu, Jun-Yan Zhu, and Stefano Ermon. Sdedit: Guided
image synthesis and editing with stochastic differential
equations. arXiv:2108.01073, 2021.
Michael I Miller, Alain Trouv´e, and Laurent Younes. On the
metrics and euler–lagrange equations of computational
anatomy. Annual Review of Biomedical Engineering, 4
(1):375–405, 2002.
Soumik Mukhopadhyay, Matthew Gwilliam, Vatsal Agarwal,
Namitha Padmanabhan, Archana Swaminathan, Srinidhi
Hegde, Tianyi Zhou, and Abhinav Shrivastava. Diffusion
models beat gans on image classification, 2023.
Thao Nguyen, Yuheng Li, Utkarsh Ojha, and Yong Jae Lee.
Visual instruction inversion: Image editing via image
prompting. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 36, 2024.
Ozan Oktay, Jo Schlemper, Loic Le Folgoc, Matthew
Lee, Mattias Heinrich, Kazunari Misawa, Kensaku Mori,
Steven McDonagh, Nils Y Hammerla, Bernhard Kainz,
et al. Attention u-net: Learning where to look for the
pancreas. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.03999, 2018.
Muzaffer ¨Ozbey, Onat Dalmaz, Salman UH Dar, Hasan A
Bedel, S¸aban ¨Ozturk, Alper G¨ung¨or, and Tolga Cukur.
Unsupervised medical image translation with adversarial
diffusion models. IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging,
42(12):3524–3539, 2023.
Or Patashnik, Daniel Garibi, Idan Azuri, Hadar Averbuch-
Elor, and Daniel Cohen-Or. Localizing object-level shape
variations with text-to-image diffusion models. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on
Computer Vision, pages 23051–23061, 2023.
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry,
Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen
Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. Learning transferable visual
models from natural language supervision, 2021.
Jacob C Reinhold, Aaron Carass, and Jerry L Prince. A
structural causal model for mr images of multiple scle-
rosis.
In International Conference on Medical Image
Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention, pages
782–792. Springer, 2021.
Olaf Ronneberger, Philipp Fischer, and Thomas Brox. U-
net: Convolutional networks for biomedical image seg-
mentation. In International Conference on Medical image
computing and computer-assisted intervention, pages
234–241. Springer, 2015.
Tim Salimans, Ian Goodfellow, Wojciech Zaremba, Vicki
Cheung, Alec Radford, and Xi Chen. Improved tech-
niques for training gans. Advances in neural information
processing systems, 29, 2016.
Gulshan Sharma, Abhinav Dhall, and Ramanathan Subra-
manian. Medic: Mitigating eeg data scarcity via class-
conditioned diffusion model. In Deep Generative Models
for Health Workshop NeurIPS 2023, 2023.
Sophie Starck, Vasiliki Sideri-Lampretsa, Bernhard Kainz,
Martin J Menten, Tamara T Mueller, and Daniel Rueck-
ert. Diff-def: Diffusion-generated deformation fields for
conditional atlases. IEEE Transactions on Medical Imag-
ing, 2025.
Kerem C Tezcan,
Christian F Baumgartner,
Roger
Luechinger, Klaas P Pruessmann, and Ender Konukoglu.
Mr image reconstruction using deep density priors. IEEE
transactions on medical imaging, 38(7):1633–1642, 2018.
Hideaki Uchiyama, Shunsuke Sakurai, Masashi Mishima,
Daisaku Arita, Takashi Okayasu, Atsushi Shimada, and
Rin-ichiro Taniguchi.
An easy-to-setup 3d phenotyp-
ing platform for komatsuna dataset. In Proceedings of
the IEEE international conference on computer vision
workshops, pages 2038–2045, 2017.
Thomas Unterthiner, Sjoerd Van Steenkiste, Karol Kurach,
Raphael Marinier, Marcin Michalski, and Sylvain Gelly.
Towards accurate generative models of video: A new
metric & challenges. arXiv:1812.01717, 2018.
Franc¸ois X Vialard, Laurent Risser, Daniel Rueckert, and
Colin J Cotter. Diffeomorphic 3d image registration via
geodesic shooting using an efficient adjoint calculation.
International Journal of Computer Vision, 97(2):229–241,
2012.
Zhou Wang, Alan C Bovik, Hamid R Sheikh, and Eero P
Simoncelli. Image quality assessment: from error visibility
to structural similarity.
IEEE transactions on image
processing, 13(4):600–612, 2004.
Nian Wu and Miaomiao Zhang. Neurepdiff: Neural op-
erators to predict geodesics in deformation spaces. In
International Conference on Information Processing in
Medical Imaging, pages 588–600. Springer, 2023.
455


Wu, Jayakumar, Xing, and Zhang, 2026
Nian Wu and Miaomiao Zhang.
Learning geodesics of
geometric shape deformations from images. The Journal
of Machine Learning for Biomedical Imaging, 2024.
Nian Wu, Jiarui Xing, and Miaomiao Zhang. Tlrn: Tempo-
ral latent residual networks for large deformation image
registration.
In International Conference on Medical
Image Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention,
pages 728–738. Springer, 2024.
Nian Wu, Nivetha Jayakumar, Jiarui Xing, and Miaomiao
Zhang.
Igg: Image generation informed by geodesic
dynamics in deformation spaces. In International Con-
ference on Information Processing in Medical Imaging,
pages 232–246. Springer, 2025.
Jianhao Xie, Ziang Zhang, Zhenyu Weng, Yuesheng Zhu,
and Guibo Luo. Meddiff-ft: Data-efficient diffusion model
fine-tuning with structural guidance for controllable med-
ical image synthesis.
In International Conference on
Medical Image Computing and Computer-Assisted Inter-
vention, pages 306–316. Springer, 2025.
Jiarui Xing, Nivetha Jayakumar, Nian Wu, Yu Wang, Fred-
erick H Epstein, and Miaomiao Zhang. Lamod: Latent
motion diffusion model for myocardial strain generation.
In International Workshop on Shape in Medical Imaging,
pages 164–177. Springer, 2024.
Jinbo Xing, Menghan Xia, Yong Zhang, Haoxin Chen,
Wangbo Yu, Hanyuan Liu, Gongye Liu, Xintao Wang,
Ying Shan, and Tien-Tsin Wong. Dynamicrafter: Ani-
mating open-domain images with video diffusion priors.
In European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 399–
417. Springer, 2025.
Junlin Yang, Nicha C Dvornek, Fan Zhang, Julius Chapiro,
MingDe Lin, and James S Duncan. Unsupervised domain
adaptation via disentangled representations: Application
to cross-modality liver segmentation. In International
Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer-
Assisted Intervention, pages 255–263. Springer, 2019.
Zhuoyi Yang, Jiayan Teng, Wendi Zheng, Ming Ding, Shiyu
Huang, Jiazheng Xu, Yuanming Yang, Wenyi Hong, Xi-
aohan Zhang, Guanyu Feng, et al. Cogvideox: Text-
to-video diffusion models with an expert transformer.
arXiv:2408.06072, 2024.
Jee Seok Yoon, Chenghao Zhang, Heung-Il Suk, Jia Guo,
and Xiaoxiao Li. Sadm: Sequence-aware diffusion model
for longitudinal medical image generation. In Interna-
tional Conference on Information Processing in Medical
Imaging, pages 388–400. Springer, 2023.
Laurent Younes, Felipe Arrate, and Michael I Miller. Evolu-
tions equations in computational anatomy. NeuroImage,
45(1):S40–S50, 2009.
Zhengming Yu, Zhiyang Dou, Xiaoxiao Long, Cheng Lin,
Zekun Li, Yuan Liu, Norman M¨uller, Taku Komura, Marc
Habermann, Christian Theobalt, et al. Surf-d: Gener-
ating high-quality surfaces of arbitrary topologies using
diffusion models. In European Conference on Computer
Vision, pages 419–438. Springer, 2025.
Kai Zhang, Geng Chen, Shijie Huang, Fangmei Zhu,
Zhongxiang Ding, and Dinggang Shen. Development-
driven diffusion model for longitudinal prediction of fetal
brain mri with unpaired data. IEEE Transactions on
Medical Imaging, 2024.
Miaomiao Zhang, Ruizhi Liao, Adrian V Dalca, Esra A
Turk, Jie Luo, P Ellen Grant, and Polina Golland. Fre-
quency diffeomorphisms for efficient image registration.
In International Conference on Information Processing in
Medical Imaging, pages 559–570. Springer, 2017.
Zhaoyu Zhang, Mengyan Li, and Jun Yu. On the conver-
gence and mode collapse of gan. In SIGGRAPH Asia
2018 Technical Briefs, pages 1–4. 2018.
456
